International Journal Solids Structures fifty two thousand thirteen twentyone million seventytwo thousand one hundred fourteen Contents lists available SciVerse ScienceDir ect International Journal Solids Structures journal homepage www. elsevier. com locate ijsolstr Inverse problem non homogeneous residual stress identification thin plates R. Nedin A. Vatulyan Department Theory Elasticity Faculty Mathematics Mechanics Computer Sciences Southern Federal University  Milchakova Street three hundred fortyfour thousand ninety Rostov Don Russia r c l e n f b r c Article history Vibration solid bodies residual stresses attracting attention researchers different Received 9March two thousand twelve countries along ti me. Problems residual stress analysis applications fieldsof building Received revised form twentysix January two thousand thirteen mechanical engineering aircraft construction biomechanics manufacturing composite functionAvailable online thirty March two thousand thirteen ally gradient materials. The common model residual stresses orprestresses homogeneous prestress state model however fact prestress state often non homogeneous natural conKeywords ditions. One powerful nonde structive methods reconstruction non homogeneous preResidual stress stress state acoustical method. Inhomogeneity  present paper direct problem formulations  bodies thin plates non homogeInverse problem neous prestress fieldsare described. Aformulation inverse problem areconstruction nonAcoustical method Iterative process homogeneous prestress state given basis acoustic al method. The problem reduced Finite Element Method iterative process step latter direct problem integral Fredholm equation Tikhonov regularization procedure firstkind solved. Two ways obtaining operator equations inverse problem presented two oscillation regimes plane plane plate vibration modes. Numerical results solving inverse problem areconstruction uniaxial prestress function case plane vibration athin rectangular plate presented. Features characteristics solutions obtained revealed auspicious conditions better quality identification proce dure pointed. cid two two thousand thirteen Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. . Introduction Inves ti ga tion onpre str es side nti ficatio n usin g semi de str  tiv e methods actively conducted. Most Stresses exist asolid without application exter methods based physical intrusion indentor inside nal forceor thermal actions termed residual stresses orpre body even partial destruction. Among methods stresses. Such stresses usually results welding heat multifarious variants hole drilling method treatment rolling pressing procedures manufact crack compliance method others Prime one thousand nine hundred ninetynine Lee  al. ing processes. Also residual stresses arise rigid con two thousand four Svaricek Vlk two thousand seven Moharami Sattari Far two thousand eight. nection differing materials contact area Birger one thousand nine hundred sixtythree  addition disadvantage destructive peculiarit one Chernishov  al. one thousand nine hundred ninetysix. shortcomi  methods physical limitation setting senAt present development perfection prestress identifi sors strain indicators indentors nearby induced deformations. cation techniques important task solid mechanics. This due However last two decades atendency prestress fact presence concentra tors considerable het identification techniques shift away semi destru ctive erogeneities residual stresses aconstructio n may cause signif methods towards promising non destr uctive methods icant loss durability even adestruction construction. A revealing. The widespread non destr uctive methods distinguishing feature residual stress presence X ray diffraction method Larsson Oden two thousand four Shiro evident afailure abreakage occurs.  hand  al. two thousand eight acoustical method Vatulyan 2007b Tovstik special cases types residual stress state construc two thousand nine  Kobayashi two thousand one Guz two thousand five Sathish  al. two thousand five tion may enhance reliability durability exploita ultrasound method Karabutov  al. two thousand eight Vangi two thousand one tion. For reason sometimes construction advisedly Sanderson Shen two thousand ten Uzun Bilge two thousand eleven magnetoexposed residual stresses afabrication stage forexample acoustical emission magnetic Barkhause n noise technique prestressed concrete. OSullivan  al. two thousand four Yelbay  al. two thousand ten holograph  technique Chernishov  al. one thousand nine hundred ninetysix. Also worth noting eigenstrai n method Cao  al. two thousand two Jun Korsunsky two thousand ten Corresponding author. Korsunsky  al. two thousand six different mixed methods including E mail addresses rdn90 .  R. Nedin vatulyan aaanet.  A. Vatulyan. twenty seven thousand six hundred eightythree see front matter cid two two thousand thirteen Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. R. Nedin A. Vatulyan International Journal Solids Structures fifty two thousand thirteen twentyone million seventytwo thousand one hundred fourteen several techniques residual stress identification. The new meth whereu components displacement vector T components  od nano inde nting developed quite recently investi non symm etric Piola stress tensor one  compone nts  gate residual stresses near surface layers body Zhu  al. symmetr  prestress tensor C components elasticity tensor ijkl two thousand ten Dean  al. two thousand eleven. Besides experimental identificationtech e component linear deformati tensor j141 two . The  niques analytical approaches residual stress identification compone nts residual stress tensor satisfy equilibriu also developed Schajer Prime two thousand six Farrahi equations i. e.  140.  j  al. two thousand nine Isakov  al. two thousand three Xiong  al. two thousand nine. The X ray diffraction methods generally recognized . . Formulation steady state vibration problem thin prestressed precise methods measuring stresses near surface. plate These methods commonly used checking technique s. But X ray methods also number disadvantages Prime Let us view steady sta te vibration thin elastic isotropic plate one thousand nine hundred ninetynine Walker two thousand one. One powerful nondestructiv e volume V boundary V thickness  arbitrary section methods reconstruc tion non homogeneous prestress state outline. Denote aplane section middle level S. Regarding acoustical method. Its main advantages others S14l14l  plate clamped lateral surface part methods inexpensivenes forinstance compariso n l cid two twelve cid three h h cid four acted loading oscillating freu X ray methods operations efficiency applicabil ity quencyxatlr cid two twelve cid three h h cid four Fig. . various materials. The plate contains non homoge neous  prestress field i. e.  noted mostly homogeneous prestress state three components symmetric prestress tensor model used Tovstik two thousand nine Guz two thousand five. However prestress nonzero state often non homoge neous reality components  x x zero b141 two two prestress tensor depend coordinates especially near stress  one two concentrators cavities cracks insertions weld seams on.  present many studies devoted prestress . . .  plane vibration effect areas cracks welds methods apreven The problem plane vibration prestressed thin plate gition defect growth Lammi Lados two thousand eleven Ihara  al. two thousand eleven ven set similar formulati problem Lee Chang two thousand eleven. One important area research closely  body one difference indexes jtake related previous one effect shot peening process values 1or two instead third relation set follaser shock peening defect regions prestress fieldin surface lowing relation takes place layers sample Liu  al. two thousand eleven Mylonas Labeas two thousand eleven r 14k cid five 2le three Brockman  al. two thousand twelve.   k k   present paper theoretical research opportunities consider plane stress state i. e. k cid five fourteen 2kl next star k2l non homoge neous prestress fieldreconstructio n thin elastic iso omitted. tropic plates oscillating plane plane regimes The weak formulation problem one given conducted using acoustical method. The prestress fieldis char Z Z acterized Piola stress tensor according linearized P  idlr cid three   j j2le iju  ijv  mr0 mjv j cid three x2qu  idS140 model described Guz two thousand two. Weak strong formulations  S direct problems vibration regimes given.  basis four linearization method inverse problem reduced iter wherev test functions satisfying essential condition ative process Vatulyan 2010a.  every step process functions Vatulyan two thousand eight. direct problem Fredholm integral equation firstkind continuous kernel solved. . . . Out plane vibration The numerical calculations solving direct inverse Let us take KirchhoffLovehypotheses thin plates problems made using Finite Element Method pack neglect stress component consider compo33 age FreeFem Hecht  al. two thousand nine Tikhonov regularizanents displacement vector depend one function tion procedure programmi  language Fortran. The series w14wx x Timoshenko Woinowsky Krie ger one thousand nine hundred fiftynine one two numerical experiments identification smooth laws uniaxial prestress state rectangular plate conducted. The fourteen cid three x w fourteen cid three x w 14w five one three one two three two three auspicious loading regimes frequency ranges identification procedure given.  paper Nedin Vatulyan 2011b proper boundary problem formulati derived using hypotheses five two. The stationary vibration plate caused periodic forces . Direct problem intensity qeixt directed transversely plate plane . . Formulation steady sta te vibration problem  prestressed applied boundary part . The problem formulation takes form following boundary problem body bodC yo n wsi id r    ad us nta  ae r    14ati  un  r el    h io st  clp ai   ere   thed e eight w cid three   H14  cid three N w cid four n cid two cid two cid two cid two  one thousand four hundred fourteen  G   one hundred forty six r  jj14 14C 0jk  k l T  14P one  oh rti  f  inu  nis b thas  r eh lse  omod mel  l yr e us sid eu      es right      c se  e b   G eu sdz e   one hundred two nine . 2It iSu  jSr Hoger one thousand nine hundred eightysix Robertson one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight. R. Nedin A. Vatulyan International Journal Solids Structures fifty two thousand thirteen twentyone million seventytwo thousand one hundred fourteen two thousand one hundred nine D14 thirtytwo  cid three h  two cylindrica l rigidity plate G t142 3h3T abnan b . . Derivation inverse problem equation bending moment boundary l H 142h3T n n cid three T n n three  b one  b two . . .  plane vibration twisting moment l N t14 cid three D D  cid three two 3h3r0 mbw bna Let us view inverse problem prestress identification 2hr0 abnaw b shear force l Teab14k cid five dabw kk2lw abw amr0  plate case plane vibration.  section use one b k m141 two n n components vector normal methods derivation operator equation inverse problem one two solving based weak formulati direct problem. boundary l normal tangention al derivatives n For let us take weak formulation four direct probtolrelatively. Here neglect inertia rotation equation lem one last boundary condition. The weak formulation problem six given Ar0 v cid three Bv140 Z cid five two two  abv  cid three 3h3qx2rw cid six  3h3r0 mbw amv  correspo nding bilinear linear forms S Z Z 2hr0 abw  b cid three 2hqx2wv  cid three qvdl r140 seven Ar0 v14   j j2le iju  ijv  mr0 mjv j  S cid three x2quvdS wherevis test function satisfying essential conditions function wdoes. Z Bv14 P  idlr . . Direct problem solving  Let us fixtwo states conditions correspondi  following Solving testing analysis direct problems plane sets characteris tics one  r01 two  r02.   plane vibrations thin prestressed plate given Consider equality Nedin Vatulyan 2011a b detail.  vibration cases numerical solutions obtained Ar01   cid three Ar02  u114Bu2 cid three Bu1 eight using FEM package FreeFem.  estimate accuracy FEM solutions acomparison problem solution aband After reorganizin g left hand side eight plate section shape oblong rectangular relation sides Ar01   cid three Ar02   b ten analytical solution problem case homogeneous characteristi  material parameters den Z fourteen ku1u22le u1e u2u1r01u2 cid three x2qu1u2dS sity prestress tensor components made. The comparison j j  k  k  j S numerical theoretical solutions showed high accuracy Z FEM results obtained. cid three  two  j one j2le iju k2e iju k1u two   j2u one j S Also analysis prestress level influence fre cid three x2qu2u1dS quency response function made rectangular plate Z firstand second frequency ranges. Adifference frequency fourteen u1r01u2 cid three u2r02u1dS sponse functions turned sufficientenough employ  j  j S prestress reconstructio n procedure discrepancy significantnear resonant frequencies. The right hand side eight takes form Z . Inverse problem Bu2 cid three Bu114 P   cid three i1dlr  . . Formulation inverse problem non homogen eous prestress Therefore equality eight becomes identificationin  body Z Z one   j1u two j cid three two mr0 j2u one jdS14 P   cid three i1dlr nine S  Consider asolid body characteristi  given Section .  containing non homogeneous Let us use linearizat ion method following form prestress field described components  ijx one x two x three r0214r01dr0 u214u1du ten prestress tensor.    j j j The inverse problem identificationof non homogeneous dr0  corrections correspondin g functions.  j prestresses body given set one. Now unknown Substituting expressions ten integrand left hand functions  ijx one x two x three known functions material side . nine obtain parameters loading. Also assume additional informati displace one mr0 j1u two j cid three two   j2u one j14u one mr0 j1u one jdu j cid three one ment fieldis given. Note popular ways assign  r01dr0  ment setting displacement fieldu inside area afixed   j frequency setting displacement fieldu iat boundary part 14u one mr0 j1u one  one mr0 j1du j limited number frequenci es x 212x x cid four. The inverse k cid three cid three u1r01u1 cid three u1dr0  problem linear firstcase nonlinear second  j  j one Vatulyan 2010b 2007b. Let us consider second way cid three  r01u1 cid three  dr0  eleven  j  j additional informati assignment  simplifyi  eleven neglecting nonlinear items fuj g x 212x x cid four k141 iSr k k cid three u1r01u2 cid three u2r02u114 cid three u1dr0  The problem identify functions r0on basis infor  j  j  j  mation given. Hence equality eight becomes2110 R. Nedin A. Vatulyan International Journal Solids Structures fifty two thousand thirteen twentyone million seventytwo thousand one hundred fourteen Z Z Z Z one mdr0 mju one jdS14 P   cid three i2dlr twelve dr0 mju mu jdV fourteen 12dr0 11u2 one 1u2 two 1u2 three 12dr0 twelve one  one two S  V V dr0    cid four  j m141 . two one two two three one three two twentytwo one two two two three two Z fourteen 12dr0 x2w two x2w two w two Remark. Such method derivation equations solving V eleven eleven twentyone one various inverse problems general implies considering 2dr0 x2w w x2w w w w twelve eleven twelve twentyone twentytwo thirtyone thirtytwo two physically differe  states problem.  paper Dudarev dr0 x2w two x2w two w two cid four  Vatulyan two thousand eleven equality twelve obtained without fixing twentytwo twelve twentytwo thirtytwo Z cid seven cid five two cid six two states. fourteen dr0 h3w two w two 2hw two sideD e f 1te two w  e fourteen fi  ai la lyt hlr a.  ey expanding sum left hand S 2dr01 cid five one twentythree h3w D11 w21  w w cid six one Z twelve three twelve one two Sdr0 1112u eleven 12u twentyone twelve cid four 2dr0 twelve 12u eleven  eleven  twentyone  twentyone two cid four dr0 cid five two h3w two w two 2hw two cid six cid eight  twentytwo three twelve twentytwo two dr0 12u12u12 cid four  twentytwo one two two two Z Taking account way plate loading finallythe opera14 P   cid three f idlr thirteen tor relation fourteen plane vibration regime thin prelr stressed plate takes form . . . Out plane vibration Z cid seven cid five two cid six dr0 h3w two w two 2hw two Let us consider inverse problem prestress identification eleven three eleven twelve one S aplate oscillating plane regime.  Section . . 1the cid five two cid six 2dr0 h3w Dw2hw w operator equation inverse problem derived plane twelve three twelve one two case basis weak formulati problem.  cid five two cid six cid eight Z mention way derivation operator dr0 h3w two w two 2hw two dS14  cid three fdS fifteen twentytwo three twelve twentytwo two equations.  section operator equation plane  vibration case derived corollary generalized Let us view case uniaxial pre tension along axis reciprocity relation constructed paper Vatulyan 2007a x one nonzero component prestress tensor one Z Z . As result fact prestress tensor satisfies dr0 mju one mu one jdV P cid three i1dSr140 fourteen e11 quilibrium equations function  eleven depends V  coordinat e x.  case relation fifteen becomes two dr0 corrections unknown prestress functions  f i14u  known displacem ent field bounda  part  Z cid five two cid six Z superscript one describing state omitted dr0 h3w two w two 2hw two dS14  cid three fdS sixteen eleven three eleven twelve one j m141 two . S  Remark. This relation given case  body considered Section2.  seeFig. . Also note form twelve. . . Numerical experiment The relation fourteen binds together known unknown problem parameters. . . . Description Now let us use hypotheses thin plate five consider Consider inverse problem uniaxial non homoge neous prethe case  prestress state two. Therefore first item stress identificationfor rectangular thin plate plate oscilrelation fourteen takes following form lation regime Fig. . The problem takes form six known functions plate dimension b h material parameters cylindrical rigidityDand density q load intensity q. Let us set aproblem identification law variation  x. As additional eleven two informati use data displacement field w boundary part  aset frequenci es x k212x cid three x cid four. Fig. . three Dimensional solid body boundary S14Su . The periodic forces Peixtare applied  body clamped . Fig. . The rectangular thin plate uniaxial non homogeneous prestress Fig. .  left picture  plate volume V boundary Vand thickness . The uniformly distributed periodic load boundary part produces out11 .  right plate section area Sand boundary S14l14lu . plate oscillation regime. R. Nedin A. Vatulyan International Journal Solids Structures fifty two thousand thirteen twentyone million seventytwo thousand one hundred fourteen two thousand one hundred eleven Fig. . Flow block iterative process solving inverse problem. Remark. InNedin Vatulyan 2011b special case consid After iteration process consisting three steps occurs ered additional information contained data displace follows. ment fieldwin hole area S.  case inverse problem Step . The direct problem six solved r0n cid three  eleven two linear may reduced single solving integral means n cid three one approximatio n function  x using eleven two Fredholm equation firstkind.  present paper deal FEM package FreeFem. As result displacement nonlinear inverse problem uniaxial non homogeneous fields  cid three  x calculated frequency values x k one two k prestress identification plate vibration regime. k141 m.  firstiteration n141 direct problem solved The case plane vibration considered Nedin initial approximati r00x selected automatically eleven two Vatulyan 2011a. function identify. Step . The integral Fredholm equation firstkind seventeen solved correction dr0nx current approximati . . . Reduction inverse problem iterative process eleven two  x calculated set points  g two thousand one hundred twenty b cid four.  The inverse problem formulated belongs class ill posed eleven two two additional information solving inverse problem conproblems. One efficient methods solving tained function  14wj x given point method iterative processes Vatulyan 2010a. k  k point several frequency values x k141 n thisfunction charLet us use relation sixteen obtained represent fol k acterizes displacements measured load evenly dislowing form tributed set points boundary part . The solving Z b equation seventeen implemented using Tikhonov regularization  cid three  two xdr ten 1nx 2dx 214Fn cid three  x212x cid three x cid four seventeen procedure2 realized means program ming language zero Fortran module linked package FreeFem. Step . The current approximati function identify redefinedby formula r0n14r0n cid three 1dr0n dr0nis corKn cid three  x14Z cid five two h3w n cid three 12w n cid three 122hw n cid three twelve cid six  rection calculated th1  Step one twentyone. eleven eleven two three eleven twelve one one zero eighteen two Generally solving integral Fredholm equation firstkind Z Z b  cid three 1x14 qwn cid three one cid three fdS nineteen  susds14fx x212c cid four   continuous kernel  given function lr14fx twelve thousand one hundred twenty cid four x 2140g  twelve thousand one hundred twenty cid four x 214bg  114a x twentytwo thousand one hundred twenty b cid four g. usis unknown function well known ill posed probHere round brackets iteration number indicated. For lem therefore one find solution correctly ordinary given value n relation sixteen considered integral methods. Tikhonov proposed understand solution funcFredholm equation first kind depending correction tion uswhich minimize following functional dr0n cid three  unknown uniaxial prestress function.  ba11 two sis formulate equation seventeen one construct iterative Z Z b two Z b process solving inverse problem. The process represented Ma12u cid four fourteen  susds cid three  dxa u2sds zero form flow block Fig. . Its brief description given c. know us continuo us 12a b cid four. Tikhonov proved First automatic search initial approximation problem solvable unique solution. The value unknown uniaxial prestress function  11x two fulfilled acalled regularization parameter inmost cases value small stance class constants linear functions seenext section. a1410 cid three four cid seven ten cid three eight. For detail see Tikhonov Arsenin one thousand nine hundred seventynine. 2112 R. Nedin A. Vatulyan International Journal Solids Structures fifty two thousand thirteen twentyone million seventytwo thousand one hundred fourteen Fig. . Parallelepiped domain coefficientsaandb. Then steps described performed redefinedcorrection r0n completion condition eleven satisfied. As acompletion condition one choose aminimization discrepancy functional vffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi F14kFnxk14u tXm Fnx  e i141 whereFnxwas definedby nineteen previously eis accurac pre Fig. . Plate dimensions a142m b141m h140  exact prestress function scribed mis number frequencies Fig. .  11x214 cid three 800sinpx2 fifty cid three one . Number iterations . . . . Initial approximation search  section one way initial approximati search given event initial approximati unknown prestress function searched form linear function r00x 14abx. Assuming priori information eleven two two boundedness prestress function known cid three M6r00x  eleven two cid seven cid three M6abx  two twenty 06x  two This set forms domain coefficients b compact set parallelepiped vertexes cid twelve cid ten cid three M  cid eleven M zero cid ten M cid three  cid eleven cid three M zero cid thirteen Fig. . h h After minimizing functional F min selection proper pair aandbis made grid domain construct initial approxi mation. . . . Numerical results The series numerical experimen  identificationof uniaxial non homoge neous prestress function  x arectan11 two gular plate conducted Fig. . The various classes functions Fig. . Plate dimensions a142m b140  h140  exact prestress function identify considered monotonous non monotone lin  11x214 cid three 800sinpx2 fifty cid three one . Number iterations . ear polynomial exponential trigonometri cal complicated analytical dependences.  vibration frequencies distribute loaded part  plate boundary. The best xof load applied selected three frequency ranges reconstruc tion results achieved considerin g ten points first resonant frequency first range three loaded plate sides forming  seecomputational first second resonants second range results. Mostly increasing decreasing number second third resonant third range.  points descrapancy reconstructio n obtained experiments prestress levels max jr0 x jwere chosen increased.  eleven two away relation max eleven EYoung modulus changed  problem identificationof uniaxial non homoge E range ten cid three five cid seven ten cid three . The unknown prestress function identified neous prestresses plate case plane vibration rein form values aset points evenly distributed gime one see tendencies case plane domainx two thousand one hundred twenty b cid four.  experiments number points vibrations given Nedin Vatulyan 2011a. two . As additional information inverse problem used First cases numerical experiments asmall detevalues function  . nineteen set points rioration identification unknown function  x eleven . Nedin A. Vatulyan International Journal Solids Structures fifty two thousand thirteen twentyone million seventytwo thousand one hundred fourteen two thousand one hundred thirteen function identify segment ends considered given identification quality ends significantly increased. Secondly almost examples viewed best reconstruction results obtained considering second third frequency ranges rather firstone. The numerical results reconstructio n uniaxial stressesr0 x given Figs.  following plate eleven two parameter E141 ninetysix cid six 1011Pa m140 twentynine q147 eight cid six 103kg . The identification results presented second frequency range. The function values  x ends x two thousand one hundred twenty b cid four accepted eleven two two given. The firm line denotes exact function  x small eleven two squares identification result. The error value calculated percent formula  ar  one  two  one hundred twentytwo zero b cid three cid four r jr0 one zero one cid five one cid five one x  two j j100  11x two reconstructed law variation prestress  cid five x eleven two exact one. Also effect measurem ent error identificationaccuracy investigated.  perturbation function  induced follows fx14fxcARx wherecis parameter denotes anoise degree Ais characFig. . Plate dimensions a142m b140  h140  exact prestress function teristic amplitude function   random function  11x214 cid three 800sinpx2 fifty cid three one . Number iterations . maximum amplitude less equaling one. As example Fig. nine computation result c140 five given. The prestress function selected way Fig. . The maximum discrepancy reconstruction case exceed eleven. . Conclusion The formulations direct problems steady state vibration thin elastic isotropic plates non homoge neous residual stresses presented cases plane plane vibration regimes. The operator equations inverse problems vibration cases derived. The iterative process solving inverse problem described. The series numerical experimen  identification uniaxial non homogeneous residual stresses rectangul ar plate oscillating plane regime conducted. The recommendatio  selection effective probe regimes given. Acknowledg ments The present work done support Russian Foundation Basic Research Developm ent new methods identification localized dispersed heterogeneousnes solid bodies ProjectCode ten one one hundred ninetyfour Federal Target Program Scientific research educational staff innovation Russiaon twenty million ninetytwo thousand thirteen years StateContract P596. Fig. . Reconstruction result five noisy measurement data. Plate dimensions a142m b141m h140  exact prestress function  11x214 cid three 800sinpx two fifty cid three one . Number iterations . References Birger I. A. 1963. Residual Stresses. State Scientific Technical Publishing Machine Building Literature Moscow. ends segment x two thousand one hundred twenty b cid four took place.  cases Brockman R. A. Braisted W. R. Olson S. E. Tenaglia R. D. Clauer A. H. Langer K. two mistake ends exceeded twenty distance Shepard M. J. 2012. Prediction characterization residual stresses laser shock peening. International Journal Fatigue thirtysix 96108. ends changed within limits one hundred ten. Such deterioratio n Cao Y. P. Hu N. Lu J. Fukunaga H. Yao Z. H. 2002.  inverse approach inverse problem solution principally connected fact constructing residual stress field induced welding. Journal Strain every step iterative process numerical calcula Analysis Engineering Design thirtyseven 345359. Chernishov G. N. Popov A. L. Kozintsev V. M. Ponomaryov I. I. 1996. Residual tions second partial derivatives FEM displacement funcStresses Deformable Solids. Nauka Moscow. tionsu included kernel eighteen integral equation Dean J. Aldrich Smith G. Clyne T. W. 2011. Use nanoindentation measure seventeen occur operation known ill posed problem. residual stresses surface layers. Acta Materialia fiftynine 27492761. Dudarev V. V. Vatulyan A. O. 2011.  restoring pre stressed state elastic  worth noting kernel tend zero near bodies. ZAMM Zeitschrift furAngewandte Mathematik und Mechanik ninetyone four hundred eightyfive ends segment x twentytwo thousand one hundred twenty b cid four.  event values 492. 2114 R. Nedin A. Vatulyan International Journal Solids Structures fifty two thousand thirteen twentyone million seventytwo thousand one hundred fourteen Farrahi G. H. Faghidian S. A. Smith D. J. 2009. A new analytical approach OSullivan D. Cotterell M. Cassidy S. Tannerb D. A. Meszarosc I. 2004. Magnetoreconstruct residual stresses due turning process. World Academy Science acoustic emission characterisation ferritic stainless steel microEngineering Technology fiftyfive 453457. structural state. Journal Magnetism Magnetic Materials two hundred seventyone 381389. Guz A. N. 2002. Elastic waves bodies initial residual stresses. International Prime M. B. 1999. Residual stress measurement successive extension aslot Applied Mechanics thirtyeight 2359. crack compliance method. Applied Mechanics Reviews fiftytwo 7596. Guz A. N. 2005.  foundations ultrasonic nondestructive method Robertson R. L. 1998. Determining residual stress boundary. Measurements determination stresses near surface layers solid bodies. International linearized approach. Journal Elasticity fiftytwo 6373. Applied Mechanics fortyone 944955. Sanderson R. M. Shen Y. C. 2010. Measurement residual stress using laserHe L. E. Kobayashi S. 2001. Acoustoelastic determination residual stress generated ultrasound. International Journal Pressure Vessels Piping eightyseven laser doppler velocimetry. Experimental Mechanics fortyone 190194. 762765. Hecht F. Pironneau O. Hyaric A. L. Ohtsuka K. 2009. FreeFem third . Sathish S. Morana T. J. Martin R. W. Reibel R. 2005. Residual stress measurement Laboratoire Jacques Louis Lions Universite Pierre  Marie Curie Paris. focused acoustic waves direct comparison X ray diffraction www. freefem. org  stress measurements. Materials Science Engineering A399 8491. Hoger A. 1986.  determination residual stress elastic body. Journal Schajer G. S. Prime M. B. 2006. Use inverse solutions residual stress Elasticity sixteen 303324. measurement. Journal Engineering Materials Technology one hundred twentyeight 375382. Ihara R. Katsuyama J. Onizawa K. Hashimoto T. Mikami Y. Mochizuki M. 2011. Shiro A. Nishida M. Jing T. 2008. Residual stress estimation ti casting alloy Prediction residual stress distributions due surface machining welding X ray single crystal measurement method Neutron X ray Scattering crack growth simulation residual stress distribution. Nuclear Materials Science Biology International Conference Neutron X ray Engineering Design two hundred fortyone 13351344. Scattering . 96100. Isakov V. Nakamura G. Wang J. N. 2003. Uniqueness stability cauchy Tikhonov A. N. Arsenin V. Y. 1979. Methods Solving Ill posed Problems. Nauka problem elasticity system residual stress. Contemporary Moscow. Mathematics AMS three hundred thirtythree 99113. Timoshenko S. Woinowsky Krieger S. 1959. Theory Plates Shells. McGrawJun T. S. Korsunsky A. M. 2010. Evaluation residual stresses strains using Hill New York. eigenstrain reconstruction method. International Journal Solids Tovstik P. E. 2009. Vibration stability prestressed plate lying Structures fortyseven 16781686. elastic base. Applied Mathematics Mechanics 106120. Karabutov A. Devichensky A. Ivochkin A. Lyamshev M. Pelivanov I. Rohadgi YOU. Truesdell C. A. 1972. AFirst Course Rational Continuum Mechanics. The John Solomatin V. Subudhi M. 2008. Laser ultrasonic diagnostics residual stress. Hopkins University Baltimore Maryland. Ultrasonics fortyeight 631635. Uzun F. Bilge A. N. 2011. Immersion ultrasonic technique investigation total Korsunsky A. M. Regino G. M. Nowell D. 2006. Variational eigenstrain analysis welding residual stress. Original Research Article Procedia Engineering ten residual stresses welded plate. International Journal Solids 30983103. Structures fortyfour 45744591. Vangi D. 2001. Stress evaluation pulse echo ultrasonic longitudinal wave. Lammi C. J. Lados D. A. 2011. Numerical predictions experimental Experimental Mechanics fortyone 277281. measurements residual stresses fatigue crack growth specimens. Vatulyan A. O. 2007a. Identification problems inhomogeneous properties Engineering Fracture Mechanics seventyeight 11141124. solids. Bulletin Samara State University fiftyfour 93103. Larsson C. Oden M. 2004. X ray diffraction determination residual stresses Vatulyan A. O. 2007b. Inverse Problems Mechanics Deformable Solids. functionally graded WCCo composites. International Journal Refractory Phismatlit Moscow. Metals Hard Materials twentytwo 177184. Vatulyan A. O. 2008. Regarding variational formulation inverse coefficient Lee C. H. Chang K. H. 2011. Prediction residual stresses high strength carbon problems elastic bodies. Proceedings Russian Academy Science four hundred twentytwo steel pipe weld considering solid state phase transformation effects. Computers 182184. Structures eightynine 256265. Vatulyan A. O. 2010a. Iterative processes inverse coefficient problems.  Lee H. T. Rehbach W. P. Hsua F. C. Tai T. Y. Hsua E. 2004. The study edm hole Abstracts XIV International Conference Present day Problems Continuum drilling method measuring residual stress skd11 tool steel. Journal Mechanics. Southern Federal University Publishing Rostov Don Russia . Materials Processing Technology one hundred fortynine 8893. 8185. Liu M. Kim J. Y. Jacobs L.  J. 2011. Experimental study nonlinear rayleigh Vatulyan A. O. 2010b. Regarding inverse coefficientproblems linear mechanics wave propagation shot peened aluminum plates feasibility measuring deformable solids. Applied Mathematics Mechanics 911918. residual stress. NDT EInternational fortyfour 6774. Svaricek K. Vlk M. 2007. Residual stress evaluation hole drilling method Moharami R. Sattari Far I. 2008. Experimental numerical study measuring eccentric hole. Engineering Mechanics fourteen 191197. high welding residual stresses using blind hole drilling technique. Walker D. 2001. Residual stress measurement techniques. Advanced Materials Journal Strain Analysis fortythree 141148. Processes one hundred fiftynine 3033. Mylonas G. I. Labeas G. 2011. Numerical modelling shot peening process Xiong J. J. Shenoi R. A. Gao J. 2009.  analytical model predict residual thermal corresponding products residual stress surface roughness cold work stress  orthogonal plain weave fabric composites. International Journal prediction. Surface Coatings Technology two hundred five 44804494. Solids Structures fortysix 18721883. Nedin R. D. Vatulyan A. O. 2011a.  identificationof non homogeneous Yelbay H. I. Cam I. Gur C. H. 2010. Non destructive determination residual initial stresses. Bulletin Saint Petersburg State University one 3844. stress state steel weldments Magnetic Barkhausen Noise technique. NDT Nedin R. D. Vatulyan A. O. 2011b.  reconstruction inhomogeneous initial EInternational fortythree 2933. stresses plates.  H. Altenbach V. Eremeyev Eds. Advanced Structured Zhu L.  B. Wang H. Wang C. 2010. Measurement residual stress Materials. She Will like Structures. Non classical Theories Applications. quenched one thousand fortyfive steel nanoindentation method. Materials Springer . 165182. Characterization sixtyone 13591362.