Articles Neither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs.. Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine one thousand eight hundred fiftynine Joshua S. Walker. Buckingham Browne Nichols School Cambridge Mass. Abstract1 This article presents reevaluation Andrey Stolz either weak point novel plot device simple foil Oblomov D. Senese represents Dobrolyubovs position. I investigate problematic nature Germanness novel according Imagological methodology allows explore Andreys intercultural identity mediated myriad different erent perspectives novel. Andrey accesses two politicallyloaded symbolic sets German character mid nineteenth century Russian literature outsider Other negatively valued opposite positive Russian Self defi ned aspect internalized German Russian culture Other functions symbol westerniz one I would like thank former doctoral advisor Sarah Smyth Dublin providing invaluable insights Andrey Stolz also general topic literary stereotypes. I also indebted doctoral readers Justin Doherty Dublin Joe Andrew Keele anonymous reviewers Slovene valuable critiques additional sources suggested fi nal draft article. two thousand thirteen No2 SloveneNeither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural six Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine ing process within Russian society. Andreys unstable Germanness thus exposes paradox expressing Russian Self 19th century Russian constructed contrast toyet also terms ofthe imagined Western Other. I therefore challenge prevailing assumption Andrey meant antidote Oblomov suggest character elucidates instability Russian Self Image. Keywords Oblomov Goncharov Dobrolyubov Imagology literary stereotypes Germans Russian literature 19th century Russian Literature literary construction Self Other image Andrey Stolz identity construction XIX. XIX. XIX. XIX Introduction Methodology Ivan Goncharovs Andrey Stolz novel Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine product two worlds German fathers domain strictness burgher values Russian mothers one tenderness gentry bearings.  character travels west business yet believes work ultimately benefi homeland Russia one hundred eighty.  Andrey diffi cult defi ne spectrum foreignness relation upbringing two thousand three forty activities even name.  detractors Tarantyev Mukhoyarov German Stolz.  family friends Oblomov Zakhar mother name resoundingly Russian Andrey Andrey Ivanych Andryusha respectively.  curious majority opinion scholarship holds Andryusha symbol West Oblomovwho raised pseudo German educa1 Textual citations Oblomov refer authoritative version one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight RAN collected works vol. four one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight . Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker seven tion wears Germanic yet Eastern shlafrok gown lives Westernized imperial capital Petersburg P one thousand nine hundred ninetyone thirteen symbol East. Frank summarizes received formulation follows Some critics interpreted reference Asiatic tendency Russian character Oblomovs effi cient successful friend Stoltz whose father German certainly forms Western contrast Oblomovs indolence practical helplessness F two thousand seven. This say Oblomov unique among nineteenth century Russian literary characters display Western symbols Westernization. Rather Andrey bear contradictory paradoxical symbolic currency inherent cultural milieu. Instead emerging diametric opposites Ehre argued E one thousand nine hundred seventythree one hundred ninetysix close reading stereotypes novel demonstrates characters exist continuum images Russianness Germanness. Once Andrey removed usual role cultural stereotype foil Oblomov confi guration Stolzism imbued negative valuation critics 1860s immediately following publication novel S one thousand nine hundred ninetytwo four thousand three hundred fortyfour symbolic currency evaluated terms.  address role images Other apply Andrey I utilize Imagological methodology relatively new school criticism took shape France 1950s gained scholarly following following decades Germany L two thousand seven one thousand seven hundred thirtytwo. This productive lens analyse Andreys simultaneously Domestic Foreign character Imagology investigates construction Other aff ects constructs Self. There two particular Imagological assumptions underpin assertion. First identity comes conceptualized verbalized Self articulation stable idealized abstraction meaning exists emerges discourse deployed meet changing demands situation. Therefore necessary identify context surrounding German stereotype includes excludes ignores Andrey. Secondly Self emerges contrast Other image Other represents constitutive aspect Self. Representations Other literary discourse exist separate universe articulations Selfthe You constructed imagined precisely give shape meaning image I. Because two terms Russian German function symbiotic symbolic relationship Russian literary discourse. Andreys character accessesyet never fully commits totwo politicallyloaded symbolic sets German character mid nineteenth century Russian literature outsider Other negatively valued opposite positive Russian Self defi ned aspect inter2013 No2 SloveneNeither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural eight Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine nalized German Russian culture Other functions symbol westernizing process within Russian society. I argue paradoxical synthesis play Andreys character goes well beyond limited role ascribed scholarship prototype future schematic D one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight thirty plot device foil S two thousand three eightyeight theoretical abstraction  one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight fifty topos German element Russia M two hundred one hundred eightysix though caution inter preta tions limited diametric opposition two characters advised S one thousand nine hundred sixtyseven seventeen million nine hundred ninetyone thousand eight hundred five E one thousand nine hundred seventythree one hundred ninetyseven P one thousand nine hundred ninetyone thirteen. I therefore challenge classically received assumption fi rst pronounced Dob  lyu bov Andrey meant antidote   one thousand nine hundred fortyeight seventyone antipode S two thousand eight five hundred fortyseven thousand five hundred fortynine two thousand four  one hundred eightysix thousand one hundred eightyseven three hundred eightysix two Oblomov well discursive current established Goncharovs contemporaries according Kras shche kova made absolute social aspect character ignored rest cid one hundred fiftyseven one thousand nine hundred ninetyseven two hundred seventyfive. I assert character expresses confl icted interplay cultural stereotypes mid nineteenth century Russian discourse.  sense I agree Nedzvetskii argues Andrey interestingly deeply thought fi gure Y cid one hundred fiftyseven S one thousand nine hundred ninetytwo thirtyeight.  While critics Kholkin Setchkarev illuminated complexity Andreys character depth role success novel whole I utilize Imagological methodology demonstrate complexity emerges relation characters paradoxical Germanness. The German Russian Diametric Opposites I begin analysis Hetero Image German Other determine constructs Russian Self Image applies Andrey.  school term Hetero Image used stereotype Group A regarding Group B Russians regarding Germans.  also possible speak Self Image stereotype Group A Group A Russians L two thousand seven three hundred fortytwo thousand three hundred fortyfour. The German emerges terms mutual exclusivity Russian four perspectives novel essay I provide close reading three fourth perspective emerges Mukhoyarov whose limited contribution discussed detail Oblomovs manservant Zakhar regarding German neighbors Andreys mother regarding husband two See also cid one hundred fiftyseven one thousand nine hundred ninetyseven three hundred twentyeight. three See also Kholkin views Andrey indicative fearlessly natural genuine characters novel  two thousand three thirtyeight. Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker nine general category burghers Tarantyev regarding Andrey Andreys father. I organize traits compose German stereotype following chart demonstrates negative stereotype constructive element positive Russian Self Imageor Leerssen contextualizes work Ricoeur Levinas one becomes I way encountering You L two thousand seven three hundred thirtynine.  facilitate internal referencing following sections I use letters left hand column Figure . Russian Self Image German Hetero Image Positive Traits Negative Traits A Open Hemmed M B Free Uncontrolled T C Spontaneous Predictable M D Full Life Dull M E Honest Deceitful T F Future Oriented Past Oriented M G Simple Condescending T H Noble Crude Everyday M I Dirty Exceedingly Clean Z J Spiritual Demonic Heathen T M K Disorderly Obsessively Orderly M Z L Spiritual Material T M M Mysterious Knowable M Z N Generous Money Grubbing T M Z Figure one Mutual Opposition Oblomov Source Key Z Zakhar M Mother T Tarantyev Zakhars Cheap Cruel German Zakhars contributions list I K M N emerge one exchange novel Oblomov confronts regarding messy state apartment Zakhar defends comparison negatively valued cleanliness neighbor German piano tuner. Zakhar argues two thousand thirteen No2 SloveneNeither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural ten Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine could possibly keep  tidy Germans live spare cheap manner opposed abundance Oblomovs . While hyperbole humorous expedient defense Zakhars following assertion demonstrates deploys reinforces cultural stereotype And Germans get rubbish Just take look live The entire family one bone gnaw whole week. And coat gets passed fathers back son back father. And wife daughters short little dresses...  supposed get rubbish thirteen four This passage accesses four aspects German Hetero Image clean I  lacks suffi cient items create disorder orderly K institute structured frugality money grubbing M share single bone sustenance even though fathers occupation allows live otherwise knowable N extent material life defi ned whereas Oblomovs residence characterized clutter innumerability objects typifi  multitude beautiful knick knacks Oblomovs room seven. These depictions access stereotype Germanness imminently knowable comprehensible surface trait identifi  Dolinin characteristic Russian writer constructed German space 1920s D two thousand two hundred thirty thousand two hundred thirtysix Russian remains mystery full latent hidden potentialtraits iden tifi  characteristic Russian space Ely outer gloom belying ner glory E two thousand two one hundred thirtyfour thousand one hundred sixtyfour Widdis unlimited potential emerges unboundable space W one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight three thousand fortynine. Zakhar depicts neighbor typical German raising specifi c situation general level exclamation Where Germans get rubbish Zakhar attributes characteristics neighbor Andrey latter close family friend links patriarchal gentry authority structure subjected German stereotype. The manner address refl ects relationship Zakhar like Stolzs future wife Olga refers fi rst name patronymic Andrey Ivanychand Zakhar often adds term patriarchal respect batiushka.  example Zakhar meets Andrey end novel falling hard times  father Andrey Ivanych four hundred ninety four hundred ninetyone. Zakhar defers Andrey would Russian gentlemen four... Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker eleven follows Russian social conventions excludes Andrey category money grubbing cruel orderly obsessively clean Other. Indeed Zakhars perspective Andrey even half German bears traits German piano tuner. The Labyrinth Burgher Life Germans According Andreys Mother Andreys Russian mother also refers Andrey non German version name narrator adopts perspective uses diminutive form Andrey Andriusha His mother always worriedly watched Andryusha disappeared home one hundred fiftytwo. As Zakhar Andrey represent typical German herthough youth worried would become typical German burgher like father. She feared outcome German nature tied money materialism arrogance boredom principle German follows pattern father fathers father ad infi nitum one hundred fiftyfour thousand one hundred fiftyfive. The repeatability German archetype frequent motif literature nineteenth century. Herzen deployed image 1840s characterize travel West Gogol applied trope German Rhineland scenery 1830s. For Herzen Western space emerges excruciatingly boring space poetry vanishes travel feel machine Riding France post horses boring. Its way machine conversations arguments postmasters samovars books travel documents. The postmen drive rapidly set everything instant. And since roads like tablecloths horses everywhere poetry vanished one thousand nine hundred fiftysix two hundred fortysix.  For Gogol Rhine inculcated annoyance awe precisely numerous attractive scenes I fi nally grew tired incessant views. Your eyes get completely worn panorama picture. Before windows cabin pass one another towns crags hills old ruined knights castles M one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour one hundred fifteen. Prefi guring Andreys mothers inversion value acquiring wealth Gogol  ips valuation picturesque non picturesqueRussias possible liabilities empty expanses repositioned advantages compared boring repetition German space. As Widdis argues unboundable expanse acts cypher generalized five.. two thousand thirteen No2 SloveneNeither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural twelve Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine mystery Russianness becomes symbol impossibility self defi nition W one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight four thousand eight hundred fortynine. Epstein also noted Gogol transforms depths Russian space fi gure represents Russia whole EEY one thousand nine hundred ninetysix.  Andreys mother turn prefi gures repetitive nature German space Alexander Dolinin identifi  work Bely Shklovsky Ehrenburg Antsiferov regarding 1920s Berlin D two thousand two hundred thirtyone. The bounded constricted nature German space becomes necessary establish Russian space boundless impossible fully grasp rational means.  addition traits Andreys mother deploys aspects restrictive labyrinthine German spaceincluding cruelty restrictiveness characterize German essence fears son Andreys mother entirely like work intensive practical upbringing. She afraid son would become kind German burgher fathers antecedents... S like crudeness self reliance arrogance whole German mass showed burgher rights fashioned last thousand years... She could detect softness delicateness leniency German character. There anything... could bypass rule break custom comply statute one hundred fiftyfour.  The section passage emerges .  one hundred fiftytwo thousand one hundred fiftysix accesses ten traits discussion. I include examples nineteenth century creators culture demonstrate broader discursive currency German stereotype Andreys mother employs. A. As Hemmed Andreys mother refers German nation crowd mass. These terms access German stereotype hemmed constrictedand part imaginary confl ated nation heterogeneous Germans. This aspect Hetero Image dramatized imagination narrow life allowed German bur6 For Epstein Russian spaceas fi gureis connected demonic engages mystic copulation Chichikov. p EEY one thousand nine hundred ninetysix. seven.. Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker thirteen gher opposed assumed expansive limitless potential Russian common image identifi  Widdis Ely W one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight four thousand fortyone E two thousand two nine thousand four hundred ninetysix. The traits German hemmed restrictive reso nate depiction von Birons labyrinthine house Lazhechnikovs one thousand eight hundred thirtyfive Ice Palace O  one thousand eight hundred fiftyeight four thousand eight hundred fortynine also prefi gure prison like German house encountered Gurov Chekhovs Lady Lapdog Chekhovs narrative draws particular attention imposing fence surrounds house Gurovs lover Gurov walked Staro Goncharnaya Street without rushing searching house. Just outside house stretched long grey spiked fence. You Would run away fence like thought Gurov alternately looking windows fence one thousand nine hundred seventyseven X one hundred thirtyeight.  C. As Predictable For Andreys mother German burgher choice path life incapable breaking rules customs statutes nation. There leeway deviation pre determined trajectory progresses though along ruler one hundred fiftyeight. This aspect emphasizes linear aspect labyrinthine life German represents progression one point another along surface things concern deeper aspects life. The aspect image resonates German Gogols story Nevsky Prospect akkuratnyi thorough orderly Schiller plans life absurd lengths vow kiss wife twice day. The narrator Gogols story contrasts Schillers behavior typical Russian describes character terms national character Schiller perfect German full sense word. When twenty happy age Russian lives carelessly Schiller already measured entire life never made exception matter circumstances YOU  one thousand nine hundred thirtyeight III fortyone.  As Andreys mothers German burghers Gogols Schiller allow deviation planned course cast diametric opposite Russian Self Image. This image German overly planned Russian gloriously irrational participates discursive pattern includes Slavophiles descriptions Russian language Gasparov characterized rejection rationalist orderings events G two thousand four one hundred thirtythree.  also connects Tyutchevs poetic lines cast Russia incapable measured standardized metric One measure Russia eight... nine. two thousand thirteen No2 SloveneNeither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural fourteen Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine terms general arsheen Russia accessible faith emotion  Russia one believe Y two thousand three one hundred sixtyfive. Tyutchevs lines connect spiritual metaphysical belief Russia also undermine attempted rational measurement reader invited imagine country people measured terms general standard comprehended means logic. The German image Oblomov thus connected commonplace images measurement ruler Schillers measuring Russian Self Image defi es rational quantifi cation. D. As Dull Without allowance deviation progress along ruler nothing make life pleasant Germans thus maintain boring correctness life one hundred fiftyfive. For Andreys mother dullness German life connected harshness upbringing despises practical education German work ethic Andrey receives father. For aspects German life characterized image Germans going life hands turning millstone one hundred fiftysix. F. As Past Oriented According Andreys mother German future chained past. This emerges invocation repetitious generations one zero year old traditions. From perspective Germans lack potential imagination found Russian character. This aspect German Hetero Image thus reinforces spontaneity improvisational aspects Russian Self Image German cast incapable deviation. She imagines ideal Russian gentleman typifi  clean face bright lively gaze whereas German burghers typifi  everyday faces one hundred fiftyfive. While Andreys mother fears education turn child dull unimaginative burgher Andrey would actually speak much energy liveliness would move laughter one hundred fiftythree. Andreys education instills characteristic lively mother cherishes Russian barin gentry.  H. As Crude Everyday Just stereotypical Germans display everyday features rather liveliness Andreys mother believes ten The narrator echoes trait liveliness depiction young Andreys lively mind one hundred fiftyseven also description wide lively footsteps made imagined Stolzes Russian names... one hundred sixtyfour. Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker fifteen Germans become gentlemen possess refi nement Russian barin gentry. Rather Germans big rough hands use rude speech one hundred fiftyfive. Through repetition word grubyi rude coarse lack refi nement softness applies structures German appearance character spatiality. This provides counterpoint immaculate softness described Oblomovs features dress mannerisms small hands even whole soul five. Indeed one takes Oblomovs robe essential part Oblomovs attitude towards life P one thousand nine hundred ninetyone seventytwo corpulence becomes salient robe degrades around body course novel. J. As Demonic Andreys mother refers husband old heathen one hundred sixty accesses husbands Protestantism opposed Orthodoxy.  Russian cultural history heathen German represents foreign intrusion threat Orthodoxy roots Don Cossack revolt one thousand seven hundred five leader Kondraty Bulavin called upon Cossacks defend house Gods Holy Mother Christian Church heathen Hellenic teachings boyars Germans wish introduce M one thousand nine hundred eightysix four hundred nine. The imagined threat Orthodoxy Russian center heathen periphery translated rumors Peter Great Antichrist solution defeat lay burning German Suburb ground M one thousand nine hundred eightysix four hundred six thousand four hundred seven. Andreys mother characterization husband thus loosely connects demonic aspect German Hetero Image history representation appears GermanDevil Gogols Night Before Christmas YOU  one thousand nine hundred forty I two hundred two doctor Wernernicknamed Mephistophelesin Lermontovs Hero Our Time L two thousand four nine hundred ninetynine one thousand six doctor Krstyan Ivanovich Dostoevskys The Double depictions demonic metropolis 1920s Berlin D two thousand two thousand three hundred twentyfour devil Woland according Berliozs initial estimation Bulgakovs Master Margarita asU S two thousand four ninetyseven thousand one hundred seven. K. As Obsessively Orderly For Andreys mother German lifestyle allow slightest deviation pattern burgher life thus lives characters determined cheap commonplace orderliness one hundred fiftyfive characteristic Vladimir Nabokov ties Germans critical work regarding Gogol N one thousand nine hundred sixtyone six thousand four hundred sixtysix. L. As Materialistic Because Germans base lives upon burgher values without deviation interest lies accruing material wealth rather developing spiritual side existence. This aspect also established ruler metaphor German burgher two thousand thirteen No2 SloveneNeither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural sixteen Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine cares quantifying surface things. This aspect prefi gures negative attitude towards excessive rationality methodical manner German accumulation wealth emerges chapter four Dostoevskys The Gambler narrator asserts shall worship German method accumulation riches cid one hundred fiftyseven Y cid one hundred fiftyseven S one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour five hundred twentyeight detail Gerschenkron identifi  indicative novels negative approach imagined German way life G one thousand nine hundred seventyfive six hundred ninetyseven. The image German materialist thus reinforces spiritual mystical aspect Russian Self Imageas anti rational anti materialist guided intuitive rather systematic. Dostoevskys characterization German method German idol cid one hundred fiftyseven Y cid one hundred fiftyseven S one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour five hundred twentyeight establishes Russian Self Image properly spiritual German Hetero Image blasphemousand perilous Russian soul. M. As Knowable For Andreys mother German arrogance crudeness plain horns cowsthey prominently visible hidden. The German thus lacks key aspects Russian Self Image mystery humility hidden potential. As Zakhars condemnation German neighbor observe outside German understand inside. This aspect diametrically opposed indeterminate expansive traits associated Russian identity identifi  W one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight E two thousand two even Oblomov.  fi rst passage noveland thus keynote description theOblomovs facial expression mental state depicted indefi nite. His eyes cast dark gray absence kind defi nite ideas five. The ideas occur wander across face like free bird.. While may seem incidental description image sets tone remaining novel absence kind defi nite ideas encompasses Oblomovs inactivity spiritual purity incompetence practical aff airs unusual trajectory hero novel end heroine rather landlady. N. As Money Grubbing The Germans concern money pervasive goal lives labor intensive acquisition money one hundred fiftyfive. This emphasizes material aspect character value quantifi  willing sacrifi ce comfort increase accumulation wealth. Andreys mother fears son turn apotheosis German stereotype role ascribes husband diametrically opposed positive Russian image.  oppositional relationship negative traits associated Other construct positive image Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker seventeen Self burgher denigrated create idealized barin. Fortunately Andreys mother son raised Russian soil everyday crowd burgher cow horns one hundred fiftysix. As Zakhars deployment stereotypical German Andreys mother apply category German Andrey. Instead dimensions stereotype create counterpoint Germanness Andreys character behavior contrasted course novel. While many critics bristled supposition Goncharov intended Andrey German half German save Russia Oblomovism D one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight thirty passage elucidates Russia saves Andrey becoming German. Tarantyevs Scheming Conflated German Oblomovs acquaintance Tarantyev however casts Andrey typical condescending German eff ort gain infl uence Oblomov fi nances.  Tarantyev exploits negative stereotypical currency German image conversation attempts turn Oblomov Andrey asserting German trusted following reasons Andrey uncontrollable always knocking foreign lands travels everywhere B fiftytwo Andrey aligned demonic accursed German whose whole set aff airs unclean. aligns compounds Andreys mothers characterization father heathen J Andrey deceitful supposedly plans swindle Oblomov E fiftyone. Tarantyevs argument regarding Andreys father elucidates position also clarifi es stereotypical German traits materialism L greed N construct positive Russian Self Image A fi ne lad indeed Suddenly fathers forty rubles hes made capital three hundred zero becomes Court Councilor hes even educated And hes always traveling somewhere The little scamp really gets around Are telling genuine good Russian person would ever A Russian person would choose something go without rushing.  Would nice easy would go get done fiftytwo twelve eleven See also Krasnoshchekovas treatment German opposite Russian according Tarantyev cid one hundred fiftyseven one thousand nine hundred ninetyseven two hundred five. twelve... two thousand thirteen No2 SloveneNeither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural eighteen Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine Tarantyev argues Orthodox Christian Russian trusted cursed damned fifty educated fiftytwo German. Tarantyevs argument mercenary self serving aims highlight demonic aspect Andreys character. Krasnoshchekova indicated critics Ashkarumov Loshits linked Andrey Mephistopheles even case Loshits Anti Christ cid one hundred fiftyseven one thousand nine hundred ninetyseven four hundred seventyone. sixtyfour.  Further Andreys development emerges product ruptured displaced spatial borders wherein narrow little German alleyway widened wide road Russian spatial cultural forces one hundred fiftyeight. Epstein characterized displacement boundaries demonic 19th century Russian spatial discourse established Pushkin Gogol EEY one thousand nine hundred ninetysix. Tarantyev hopes deployment Hetero Self Images create insular  Group based ethnic religious lines include Oblomov excluding Andrey. This strategy fails Zakhar Oblomov view Andrey Other rather closer relation two grew attended school together. Tarantyevs mercenary usage German stereotype proves hypocritical two respects demonstrate paradox defi ning Russian diametric opposite German West nineteenth century Russian discourse. First Tarantyev different erentiate among foreigners. The English French Germans himcrooks bandits fifty. Tarantyev however scolds Oblomov providing foreign cigar prefers French snuff imported wine purchased German English shop domestic equivalent demonstrates confl ation nationalities  stuff German You let get English shop fortyfour. This irony anticipates Turgenevs mocking depiction Slavophile Pavel Kirsanov reads nothing Russian living Dresden Pavel Petrovich holds Slavophile views well known tres distingue high society.  read anything Russian silver ashtray form peasants bast sandal desk YOU one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour seventyeight  two thousand three forty S one thousand nine hundred ninetytwo thirtyeight Andreys formation principally mediated Russian space roots Kholkin argued reinforced essence Russian life Russian speech Russian customs...  cid one hundred fiftyseven one thousand nine hundred ninetyseven two hundred seventyfive.   also possible conceive Oblomov Andrey complementary rather mutually exclusive terms narrative functions. Otradin argues Andrey Oblomov represent two different erent points view action novel apprehendedthe Stolz analytical Oblomov poeticand two necessary provide fullness artistic representation Y one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour seventythree one hundred fourteen. The two considered literary doubles extend diametric opposition especially along Russian German Eastern Western linesindeed passage Andrey aligns Russian Self Image inexhaustible space resources.  regard Tarantyev emerges suitable diametric opposite Oblomovhe scheming dishonest active mercenary materialism diametric opposition Oblomovs unconcerned passivity. Many commentators ascribe oppositional roles characters citing Persian dressing gown proof Oblomovs Easternness Andreys surname father proof Westernness D two thousand one one hundred. This reading however disregards German associations dressing gown shlafrok fi rst introduced second paragraph novel extension Oblomovs body lack concern passed face posture entire body even folds shlafrok five. Instead using common term khalat narrator chooses barbarism shlafrok German Schlafrock. This word rare enough listed one thousand nine hundred eightyfour Dictionary Russian Language obsolete four fourteen For parallels Andrey Oblomov see one thousand nine hundred ninetyseven three hundred twentythree. Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker twentyone seven hundred twentytwo term required explanatory note one thousand nine hundred fiftynine Schoolchilds Library publication novel one thousand nine hundred fiftynine three note two. Two factors establish ambiguity items symbolic structure shlafrok later recast genuine Eastern khalat bears mark West whatsoever six Oblomov maintains robe khalat shlafrok Volkov seventeen despite narrators usage term.  one hand khalat dressing gown emerges opposite West dovetails mutual opposition Andreys mother identifi es values burgher barin appears align Oblomov East separate ideologically negative German Hetero Image.  hand shlafrok emerges style behavior mediated German Oblomov wear dressing gown genuine Easterner rather Russian participates Western display exoticism. Peace also noted khalat made Persian material could viewed pseudo Russian recalls Chaadayevs withering remark peasants mistook Slavophile Konstantin Aksakovs Russian outfi Persian P one thousand nine hundred ninetyone thirteen. From perspective shlafrok represents imitated Western model analogous passage Lermontovs A Hero Our Time Pechorin depicts Rayevichs hairstyle Franco Russian terms haircut la moujik opposed peasant muzhik haircut one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour ninetysix. Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker twentythree German half appeared earlier manuscripts novel two thousand four  seventysix would cast Andreys Germanness essentialist deterministic terms. Andreys identity appears fi nal version novel rather product cultural interaction Germannes qualifi  Russian colloquialism rather composite two different erent identities. As Kholkin noted Andreys Russianness emerges process search understanding others  thirtyeight essentialist trait static deterministic fact. This depiction runs parallel characters tend view Andrey either member  Group i. e. Brother Andrey member Out Group i. e. accursed German never half German. The second qualifi  depiction Andrey German boy also appears description childhood one hundred sixtyfive. While initially seems cast Andrey German context utterance undermines stability categorization narrator deploys term discussion Andrey infl uenced Russian factors kind greasy Russian caresses one hundred sixtyfive. These two traitsthe greasiness also connotes thickness richness kindnessoppose image German Hetero Image novel cruelty meanness German piano tuner. Therefore Andreys status German boy one factors developing personality essential nature. The label also read ironically narrator refers German boy explains factors prohibit boy becoming German. The third instance appears narrator ers following explanation Andreys proclivity towards rationality Either German nature reason able hold back conclusions four hundred fortyeight. While image German nature introduced Andrey undermined narrators indeterminacy Andreys behavior explained German instincts could reason.  essential reading ered endorsedjust multiple perspectives emerge depiction Andreys charac ter novel. Therefore narrator refer Andrey German unqualifi  manner. Rather Andrey emerges product Russian mother German father dialogue two cultural forces. Andrey immersed Russian folk stories traditions Russian Orthodoxy yet also emerges certain perspectives hostile alien Other. The familial linguistic paradoxes simultaneously Foreign Domestic run parallel Andreys education instruction father two thousand thirteen No2 SloveneNeither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural twentyfour Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine consists geographical maps grammatical lessons Biblical verses Herder Wieland. His instruction mother consists reading Saints lives Krylovs fables Fenelons The Adventures Telemachus one hundred fiftytwo. Regarding lifestyle father educates German tradition strict burgher values mother educates Russian gentry tradition tenderness.  important add even Russian side Andreys upbringing includes Western element Fenelonand German side includes spirituality anti materialism biblical verses. Further forces widened narrow German scope life embodied narrow little German rut included music Vienna born Heinrich Henri Herz equal plane Russian forces mothers dreams stories also happenings Oblomovka one hundred fiftyeight. Therefore even ostensibly pure Russian maternal infl uence includes foreign mediation process cultural translation Andrey Franco Viennese element Russian cultural formation Oblomov German element Eastern khalat. Goncharov thus calls question stability Russian Selfa stability ironically reifi  novels critical reception. Andreys character demonstrates Russian culture viewed perspective imagined Western nemets German foreigner thus character refl ects structure Russian literary discourse Russian Self defi ned terms ofyet opposite tothe imagined West. Far Dob rol  bovs impossible ideal Andreys character emerges apt symbol mid nineteenth century educated Russian gentry one foot grounded idealized Russian cultural roots idealized German education comportmentthough sides bear respective structural instabilities. The key metaphors Andreys intercultural development tactile i. e. soft Russian caresses rough German hands also spatial. First description Andreys childhood narrator articulates Russian elementsmixed Herzwidened possibilities Andreys life narrow path crude limited German burgher turned narrow little German rut wide road one hundred fiftyeight. Andrey overcomes restrictive space due interaction expansiveness Russia commonplace image Russian discourse Widdis relates open fi eld chronotope W one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight four thousand one hundred fortytwo. The narrator thus continues pattern set Andreys mother invoking labyrinthine nature German lifea space Andrey escapes. A second spatial metaphor appears narrator asserts Andrey become dull crude burgher born Russian soil nearby Oblomovka depicted eternal holiday one hundred fiftysix. The botanical metaphorwhere soil augments development Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker twentyfive plantmarks eff ect Russian space upon Andrey prevents German traits taking root. The third spatial metaphor functions two levels articulation Andreys abstract infl uences concrete space Andrey encounters upbringing. The infl uence wide open freedom grand gentry life combines indolence Oblomovka Russian forces counterbalance primness German house  one hand Oblomovka princes manor wide open freedom grand gentry life met German element Andrey became neither good Bursch even philistine one hundred fiftyseven. As Oblomovka exerts greater infl uence Andrey Oblomov family emerges product environment literal sensein addition layers metaphors. Andrey embodies cultural fusion emblem synthesis according E one thousand nine hundred seventythree one hundred ninetyseven product duality according  one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour one hundred fortynine depicted implausible Kushelev Bezborodko S one thousand nine hundred ninetytwo one hundred thirtyseven note one hundred fortythree crafty rogue half composed Chekhov one thousand nine hundred seventysix XXI. III two thousand twelve C one thousand nine hundred sixtyfour two hundred thirtyfive hopelessly uninteresting  M one thousand nine hundred ninetynine one hundred ninetytwo sketched declarative superfi cial manner S cid one hundred fiftyseven one thousand nine hundred ninetyseven two hundred seventyfive. Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker twentyseven Bibliography B one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour B C. Time Time The Temporal Ideology Oblomov The Slavic East European Journal .  one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour 561573. C one thousand nine hundred sixtyfour C A. Letters Short Story Drama Other Literary Topics E. S trans. . New York 1964. D one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight D G. The Precocious Talent Ivan Goncharov G. D . Goncharovs Oblomov A Critical Companion Evanston 1998. D two thousand one D G. Ivan Aleksandrovich Goncharov J. O J. K eds. Russian Novelists Age Tolstoy Dostoevsky Detroit two thousand one 90106. D two thousand D A. The Stepmother Russian Cities Berlin 1920s Eyes Russian Writers G. B . Cold Fusion Aspects German Cultural Presence Russia New York two thousand 225240. E one thousand nine hundred eightyfive E M. Goncharov Ivan Aleksandrovich V. T . The Handbook Russian Literature New Haven one thousand nine hundred eightyfive 178179. E one thousand nine hundred seventythree E M. Oblomov His Creator Princeton 1973. E two thousand two E C. This Meager Nature Landscape National Identity Imperial Russia DeKalb 2002. F two thousand seven F J. Being Laziness The New Republic The New Republic Mag. web newrepublic. com article laziness . . 2007 . . 2014 acc.. G two thousand four G B. Identity Language S. F E. W eds. National Identity Russian Culture  Introduction Cambridge  two thousand four 132148. G one thousand nine hundred seventyfive G A. Time Horizon Russian Literature The Slavic Review .  one thousand nine hundred seventyfive 692715. K one thousand nine hundred seventyone K A. Dobroliubovs Critique Oblomov Polemics Psychology Slavic Review .  one thousand nine hundred seventyone 93109. L two thousand four L W. Pechorins Demons Representations Demonic Lermontovs A Hero Our Time The Modern Language Review .  two thousand four 9991013. L two thousand seven L J. Imagology History Method Image Identity Alterity Hybridity M. B J. L eds. Imagology The Cultural Construction Literary Representation National Characters Amsterdam two thousand seven one thousand seven hundred thirtytwo 33544. M one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour M R. Exploring Gogol Stanford 1994. M one thousand nine hundred eightysix M R. Peter Great His Life World New York 1986. two thousand thirteen No2 SloveneNeither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural twentyeight Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine  one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight  H. The Countryside M. J R. M eds. The Cambridge Companion Classic Russian Novel Cambridge  one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight 4162. M one thousand nine hundred ninetynine M D. A History Russian Literature From Its Beginnings one thousand nine hundred Evanston 1999. M two thousand M A. Science Philosophy Music Chekhovs Three Germans Cold Fusion two thousand 185196. N one thousand nine hundred sixtyone N V. Nikolai Gogol New York 1961. OERD one thousand nine hundred ninetyone Oxford English Russian Dictionary 3rd . 2000. P one thousand nine hundred ninetyone P R. Oblomov A Critical Examination Goncharovs Novel Birmingham  1991. S one thousand nine hundred fortyfive S J. The German Russian Literature American Slavic East European Review .  two one thousand nine hundred fortyfive 5179. S one thousand nine hundred seventysix S F. Oblomov The Slavonic East European Review .  one thousand nine hundred seventysix 335354. S two thousand three S D. Nikolai Aleksandrovich Dobroliubov A. G . Russian Literature Age Realism Dictionary Literary Biography two hundred seventyseven Gale Detroit two thousand three 8093. S one thousand nine hundred sixtyseven S V. Andrej Stolc Goncarovs Oblomov  Attempted Reinterpretation  Honor Roman Jakobson. Essays Occasion His Seventieth Birthday three The Hague Paris one thousand nine hundred sixtyseven 17991805. S two thousand eight S M. Afterward I. G M. S trans. Oblomov New York two thousand eight 545552. S one thousand nine hundred fiftythree S M. Modern Russian Literature From Chekhov Present Oxford  1953. S one thousand nine hundred eightyfive S R. Dobrolyubov Nikolai Aleksandrovich The Handbook Russian Literature one thousand nine hundred eightyfive 101. S one thousand nine hundred fortyeight S L. Oblomovka Revisited American Slavic East European Review .  one thousand nine hundred fortyeight 4577. T two thousand six T P. Deutsche und Halbdeutsche bei Ivan Goncarov. Eine Skizze D. H . Deutsche und Deutschland aus russischer Sicht. . . Jahrhundert Von den Reformen Alexanders . bis zum Ersten Weltkrieg Munchen two thousand six 350365. W one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight W E. Russia Space National Identity Russian Culture one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight 3049. asU S two thousand four asU S. O eight. five. two thousand four 97544. one thousand nine hundred fiftysix. thirty. five 1956. YOU  nineteen million three hundred seventyone thousand nine hundred fiftytwo YOU . fourteen. 19371952. Slovene two thousand thirteen No2Joshua S. Walker twentynine one thousand nine hundred fiftynine. 1959. one thousand nine hundred ninetyseven. twenty.. 1997. cid one hundred fiftyseven Y cid one hundred fiftyseven S one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour cid one hundred fiftyseven Y cid one hundred fiftyseven S. two 1994.  sTM one thousand nine hundred fortyeight  sTM. cid one hundred fiftyseven one thousand nine hundred ninetyseven cid one hundred fiftyseven.. 1997. Y one thousand nine hundred fiftyseven Y. O O S. three. 1858. YOU... fourteen four.. 1999. S one thousand nine hundred ninetytwo S... 1992. Y.... 1994. S S one thousand nine hundred sixtythree S S.. one thousand nine hundred sixtythree 322. YOU one thousand nine hundred sixtyfour YOU. 1964.  two thousand three Y. six. two 2003.  two thousand three . TMS.... one hundred ninety.. two thousand three 3848. nineteen million seven hundred fortyone thousand nine hundred eightythree. thirty. 19741983. EEY one thousand nine hundred ninetysix EEY. nineteen one thousand nine hundred ninetysix 129147. References Borowec C. Time Time The Temporal Ideo G. Barabtarlo . Cold Fusion Aspects German logy Oblomov The Slavic East European Jour Cultural Presence Russia New York two thousand 225240. nal .  one thousand nine hundred ninetyfour 561573. Ehre M. Goncharov Ivan Aleksandrovich Diment G. The Precocious Talent Ivan Gon V. Terras . The Handbook Russian Literature char  G. Diment . Goncharovs Oblomov A New Haven one thousand nine hundred eightyfive 178179. Critical Companion Evanston 1998. Ehre M. Oblomov His Creator Princeton 1973. Diment G. Ivan Aleksandrovich Goncharov Ely C. This Meager Nature Landscape NaJ. Ogden J. Kalb eds. Russian Novelists tional Identity Imperial Russia DeKalb 2002. Age Tolstoy Dostoevsky Detroit two thousand one 90106. Epstein M. Ironiia stilia demonicheskoe v obraze Dolinin A. The Stepmother Russian Cities Rossii Gogolia Novoe literaturnoe obozrenie nineteen Berlin 1920s Eyes Russian Writers one thousand nine hundred ninetysix 129147. two thousand thirteen No2 SloveneNeither Burgher Barin  Imagological Intercultural thirty Reading Andrey Stoltz Ivan Goncharovs Oblomov one thousand eight hundred fiftynine Frank J. Being Laziness The New  Nabokov V. Nikolai Gogol New York 1961. pub lic The New Republic Mag. web Nedzvetskii V. I. A. Goncharov romanist www. newrepublic. com article laziness khudozhnik Moscow 1992. . . 2007 . . 2014 acc.. Otradin M. Proza I. A. Goncharova v literaturnom Gasparov B. Identity Language S. Frank kontekste . Petersburg 1994. lin E. Widdis eds. National Iden tity Russian Cul Peace R. Oblomov A Critical Examination ture  Introduction Cambridge  two thousand four 132148. Gon charovs Novel Birmingham  1991. Gerschenkron A. Time Horizon Russian Lite Sazonova J. The German Russian Literature ra ture The Slavic Review .  one thousand nine hundred seventyfive 692715. American Slavic East European Review .  two Kholkin V. Andrei Shtolts Poisk ponimaniia one thousand nine hundred fortyfive 5179. M. Zhdanova A. Lobkareva I. Smirnova eds. Seeley F. Oblomov The Slavonic East EuroGon charov I. A. Materialy Mezhdunarodnoi konfe pean Review .  one thousand nine hundred seventysix 335354. ren tsii posviashchennoi one hundred ninety letiiu dnia rozhdeniia Senese D. Nikolai Aleksandrovich Dobroliubov I. A. Goncharova Ulyanovsk two thousand three 3848. A. Gillespie . Russian Literature Age Krasnoshchekova E. Ivan Aleksandrovich Goncha Realism Dictionary Literary Biography two hundred seventyseven rov Mir tvorchestva . Petersburg 1997. Gale Detroit two thousand three 8093. Kuhn A. Dobroliubovs Critique Oblomov Setchkarev V. Andrej Stolc Goncarovs ObPo lemics Psychology Slavic Review .  one thousand nine hundred seventyone lo mov  Attempted Reinterpretation  Honor 93109. Roman Jakobson. Essays Occasion His Sev enLeatherbarrow W. Pechorins Demons Represen tieth Birthday three The Hague Paris one thousand nine hundred sixtyseven 17991805. ta tions Demonic Lermontovs A Hero Our Shishkin M. Afterward I. Goncharov Time The Modern Language Review .  two thousand four M. Schwartz trans. Oblomov New York two thousand eight 9991013. 545552. Leerssen J. Imagology History Method Skvoznikov V. Predislovie I. Goncharov Image Identity Alterity Hybridity M. Bell er Obl mov Moscow one thousand nine hundred sixtythree 322. J. Leerssen eds. Imagology The Cultural Con st Slonim M. Modern Russian Literature From ruction Literary Representation National Cha Chekhov Present Oxford  1953. racters Amsterdam two thousand seven one thousand seven hundred thirtytwo 33544. Stacy R. Dobrolyubov Nikolai Aleksandrovich Maguire R. Exploring Gogol Stanford 1994. The Handbook Russian Literature one thousand nine hundred eightyfive 101. Massie R. Peter Great His Life World Stilman L. Oblomovka Revisited American SlaNew York 1986. vic East European Review .  one thousand nine hundred fortyeight 4577. McLean H. The Countryside M. Jones Thiergen P. Deutsche und Halbdeutsche bei R. Miller eds. The Cambridge Companion Ivan Goncarov. Eine Skizze D. Hermann . Classic Russian Novel Cambridge  one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight 4162. Deutsche und Deutschland aus russischer Sicht. . Mirsky D. A History Russian Literature From . Jahrhundert Von den Reformen Alexanders . bis Its Beginnings one thousand nine hundred Evanston 1999. zum Ersten Weltkrieg Munchen two thousand six 350365. Muza A. Science Philosophy Music Chekhovs Widdis E. Russia Space National Identity Three Germans Cold Fusion two thousand 185196. Russian Culture one thousand nine hundred ninetyeight 3049. . JXYZ S. W V Buckingham Browne Nichols School eighty Gerrys Landing Cambridge Massachuse USA jwalker bbns. org Slovene two thousand thirteen No2