TeachingandTeacherEducation LeadershipandProfessionalDevelopment1 two thousand twentytwo one hundred thousand two Contents lists available ScienceDirect Teaching Teacher Education Leadership Professional Development journal homepage www. elsevier. com locate tatelp Novice teachers embracing struggle Dialogue reflection professional development Trevor Thomas Stewart Timothy A. Jansky b Virginia Tech one thousand seven hundred fifty Kraft Drive Room two thousand nine three hundred two Blacksburg  twentyfour thousand sixty USA b Northern Michigan University one thousand four hundred one Presque Isle Marquette  fortynine thousand eight hundred fiftyfive USA r c l e n f b r c Keywords This article explores challenges shared novice teachers year long series professional development Novice teachers workshops designed help novice teachers notice unpack respond difficulties Dialogue encountering first three years teaching. The authors analyzed data generated Oral Teacher induction Inquiry Process workshops identify common challenges shared novice teachers participated Professional development study nuances within. Findings pointed two common categories struggle reconciling theory Wobble practice standardized schools managing relationships veteran teachers. Nuances within challenges included tension flowing standardization pacing constraints navigating complex relationships veteran teachers. The authors argue developing nuanced understanding challenges novice teachers encounter vital first step structuring teacher induction programs respond needs teachers serve. Working findings study authors offer recommendations structuring professional development programs designed help novice teachers embrace struggle dialogue reflection upon particular challenges created teaching contexts. Introduction challenges novice teachers encounter specific teaching contexts. The first years teaching period intense transition The professional development program designed create opnovice teachers take responsibilities planning instruction portunities novice teachers examine kinds challenges teaching assessing students managing classroom also en encounter provide mechanism might help explore countering incompatible notions best means teach learn underlying sources tension within struggles.  Smagorinsky  al. two thousand fifteen p. two hundred eightynine. The student centered theories studied implementation program generate understandings pedagogical approaches novice teachers studied teacher inform efforts imagine improve systems support preparation programs Smagorinsky  al. two thousand thirteen Stewart  al. two thousand twenty currently available novice teachers. Our study implementation often incongruent prescriptive standardized institu professional development program guided followtional norms  two thousand eleven Goldstein two thousand fourteen Leonardatos Zahedi two thousand fourteen ing question What kinds challenges novice teachers encounter Hill  al. two thousand twenty Ravitch two thousand ten schools United States. might exploring challenges structured dialogue deSmagorinsky  al. two thousand fifteen argued conundrum helps explain signed position struggle source growth inform approaches beginning teachers experience dissonance moving professional development  discuss learned tween universities schools... trying develop challenges novice teachers participating study encountered conception effective instruction p. two hundred eightynine. This article reports find responses.  use discussion articulate nuances ings study year long professional development program within challenges data indexed relation act teaching implemented part efforts provide support novice occupying role teacher order present recommendations teachers could help learn adapt relation affor improving professional development programs. dances constraints instructional institutional contexts. Peter participants names pseudonyms third  particular authors draw upon findings study address year teaching time study gave voice one signifithe pressing need professional development programs respond challenge encountered related disconnect beliefs informed conceptions teaching reality Corresponding author. E mail address ttstew . edu T. T. Stewart. Received twentyone September two thousand twentyone Received revised form seven April two thousand twentytwo Accepted nineteen April two thousand twentytwo Available online twentytwo April two thousand twentytwo two thousand six hundred sixtyseven three thousand two hundred seven two thousand twentytwo The Author. Published Elsevier Ltd. This open access article     license T. T. Stewart T. A. Jansky Teaching Teacher Education Leadership Professional Development one two thousand twentytwo one hundred thousand two teaching context.  shared struggle reconcile notions Strong two thousand twelve Luekens  al. two thousand five Yenen Yontem two thousand twenty kinds teaching would reality encountered partic amounts professional development induction support ipants study saying  coming college I novice teachers receive enter profession described grandiose ideas. Like big ideas I wanted achieve best uneven unpredictable Ingersoll two thousand twelve Izadinia two thousand sixteen students learning. I really hard time transitioning actual Kidd  al. two thousand fifteen Mitchell  al. two thousand twenty. Induction programs new classroom. Peters concerns echo voiced novice teachers teachers formally pair novice teachers experienced mentors become frustrated disconnect want commonplace YOU. S. schools Chu two thousand nineteen Gordon two thousand seventeen. Providing teachers required teaching contexts novice teacher supportive mentor Izadinia two thousand fifteen Barnes two thousand eighteen Smagorinsky  al. two thousand four. A study Fecho  al. two thousand twentyone argued invaluable source encouragement emotional backhighlighted frustration occur novice teachers experience ing p. three hundred ninetyeight. However pairings alone guarantee growth conflict pedagogical goals teaching contexts. success personalities abilities persona teachers Elise example wanted teacher could bring content vary widely Gay one thousand nine hundred ninetyfive p. one hundred four. dialogue students lives p. thirtythree. Working stance Elise Differing pedagogical goals divergent perspectives effective created unit instruction Romeo Juliet designed lead approaches instruction undermine success mentorher students exploration Shakespeare created characters ing partnerships technique works well one individual conflict p. one hundred one emphasis original. She believed characters particular time place may work equally well someone conflicts play would resonate personal experi else even person context changes p. one hundred four. For ences adolescent readers classroom. However pacing example veteran teacher values orderly quiet classroom guide school required follow constrained ability lever successfully engaged students supported learning leanage connections allowed seven ninety minute class ing heavily lecture might struggle provide effective guidance periods read complex play. Elise felt rush novice teacher whose teacher education program focused studentthe text p. one hundred one. Without enough time explore play depth centered approaches instruction discussions appear felt necessary Elise became frustrated deemed chaotic veteran teacher walking classroom dropher failure connect connect able play dialogical way p. ping ad hoc observation. Trevor experience one hundred one. Our previous research teacher education teacher induction Mr. Thomas veteran teacher assigned mentor Stewart two thousand eighteen Stewart  al. two thousand nineteen Stewart Jansky two thousand twentyone indicates first year high school English teacher. Mr. Thomas univerthat professional development approaches explore specific chal sally respected faculty students.  also committed lenges novice teachers encounter classrooms help supportive mentor. However Mr. Thomas spent career teaching develop novel ways respond challenges. Findings pedagogical stance stood stark contrast Trevors studentof studies pointed ways engaging collaborative centered discussion heavy approach. The contrast pedadialogue explored participants specific contextual challenges gogical beliefs approaches teaching day made difficult enabled work together posit productive responses struggle Mr. Thomas help Trevor respond challenges encountered. increased senses agency confidence. While Mr. Thomas could often offer useful advice integrate lecture lessons well equipped help The landscape novice teacher support Trevor learn improve ability manage moments class discussion stayed far intended purpose.  alAs schools United States become increasingly prescriptive ways possible pair novice teachers mentors share similar standardized  two thousand eleven Goldstein two thousand fourteen Leonardatos Zahedi two thousand fourteen personalities philosophies teaching. Nor would argue Hill  al. two thousand twenty Ravitch two thousand ten Stewart Boggs two thousand nineteen novice teach lack diversity thinking productive. There much learned ers encounter challenges undermine confidence cre tension divergent perspectives Fecho  al. two thousand twentyone. Thus ate dissonance prevailing instructional norms poli important augment formal one one mentoring programs cies schools grind pedagogical orientations e. g. larger programmatic teacher induction programs account Smagorinsky  al. two thousand fifteen. As Stewart  al. two thousand twenty reported importance developmental contextual needs novice study challenges teacher candidates encounter stu teachers serve create conditions novice teachers dent teaching experiences dissonance theories share struggles seek guidance range perspectives studied teacher preparation program policies pre voices personalities. vailing pedagogical approaches expected carry field cause question ability succeed pro Challenges supporting novice teachers standardized YOU. S. schools fession contributes alarming problem teacher attrition e. g. Ingersoll Strong two thousand twelve McCann  al two thousand five Sutcher  al two thousand sixteen. The policies created reauthorization Elementary SecProfessional development programs potential provide cru ondary Education Act one thousand nine hundred sixtyfive entitled No Child Left Behind Act NCLB cial support enables novice teachers critically reflect two thousand two reflected long held belief public education syspedagogical orientations instructional approaches believe tem United States alone responsible achievement gaps effective find pathways success even midst children living poverty children affluent famstruggle Luekens  al. two thousand five Smith Ingersoll two thousand four Stansbury ilies Gerstl Pepin two thousand six p. one hundred fortyfour. NCLB replaced Every StuZimmerman two thousand.  provide support however professional de dent Succeeds Act ESSA two thousand fifteen reduced role federal velopment programs must sustained focused problems government local school policies. These educational reform policies teachers encounter daily work Gibbons Cobb two thousand seventeen p. sought address socio economic disparity improve learner out413. comes Hanushek Raymond two thousand five. However policies Research indicates particularly important provide teach significant negative impact teacher autonomy encouraged ers effective professional development first five standardization preparation high stakes testing Dunn  al. years profession  Wang two thousand seventeen Feiman Nemser two thousand three two thousand seventeen Stewart Boggs two thousand sixteen. Smagorinsky  al. two thousand fifteen argued Ingersoll two thousand twelve McCann  al. two thousand five Stewart two thousand eighteen Stewart  al. educational policies United States crafted imple2019. Despite long history arguments sustainable effective mented perspective assumes teachers capaprofessional development significant factor novice teacher sup ble designing curricula assessing students validly port reducing teacher attrition rates Dunn  al. two thousand nineteen Ingersoll thus teachers need Common Core State Standards Race . T. Stewart T. A. Jansky Teaching Teacher Education Leadership Professional Development one two thousand twentytwo one hundred thousand two Top mechanisms p. three hundred six effective. Given constraints un less important element finding ones footing novice teacher. der teachers YOU. S. similar policy contexts Joining school faculty first time requires one develop range laboring professional development programs need include opportu skills beyond scope classrooms nities novice teachers work challenges presented learning enacting schools policies developing productive policies restrict autonomy grind pedagogical working relationships fellow teachers students parorientations. ents. Settling role Feiman Nemser argued process  deeply concerned ways many compet enculturation p. twentyseven takes time site conflict ing centers gravity exerting tension novice teachers may source tension Fecho  al. two thousand twentyone. Professional development needs mine ability develop coherent approach instruction designed ways respond unique contextual challenges meets particular standard effective teaching however defined underlying tensions novice teachers encounter. Smagorinsky  al. two thousand thirteen p. one hundred fortyeight. The work novice teachers YOU. S. schools complicated landscape social conEmbracing wobble professional development cepts guide educational practice eternally disputed p. one hundred fiftyfour. The lack consensus simple answers questions efWe position professional development key means supporting fective teaching look like makes daily logistics act teachers respond challenges experience act teaching complex endeavor.  spite absence definite researchteaching taking role teacher. Our approach enacting based evidence clarifying effective teaching practice actually enand studying professional development guided principle tails many schools often purchase implement programs outproductive response struggle occur without ability noline structures daily lessons often right teachers tice interrogate bring challenge dialogue experience. say stand Fecho two thousand eleven p. three. These Fecho two thousand eleven used term wobble describe ability. Wobble Festandardized prescriptive programs account reality cho argued marks liminal state state transition p. fiftythree. For classrooms populated human beings bring individual example tire spinning erratically bent rim offers obvious ininstructional needs personal interests cultural contexts dicator something amiss.  creates obvious need respond classroom day. As Fecho argued Good teaching like good nudges us towards action p. fiftythree. A rider must slow fix cooking neither following recipes p. four. A seasoned rim risk going handlebars emergency chef knows ingredients need altered create specific flaroom patch torn skin broken collarbone. Moments wobvor. A thoughtful teacher knows need approach classroom ble always clear cut easy see feel. Sometimes mindful context contexts students room easy feel bike wheel true. Often much smaller day. Not every meal suits everyone taste. Not every student learns moments less obvious consequences trip hospital way brings cultural background classroom. productive sources reflection growth. No one recipe satisfy tastes nutritional needs diners. The small non verbal cues one might pick student also There set time needed make perfectly fluffy pancake. The conpoint something amiss offer nudge towards action. However sistency batter efficiency burner altitude teachers need space time reflect upon experiences look cook site factors influence cooking process. across range potential sources dissonance bring  cooking something simple pancake complex ought dialogue learn grow. The concept wobble help one index evident teaching children far complex nuance struggle success.  function imporis perfect lesson engage support every student tant mechanism development one considering challenges way.  takes time experience experimentation know encounter range responses challenges. Interroto negotiate cooking process alter recipe given challenges gating nuance help one simply name challenges like inefficient burner altitude.  also takes time reflection see people created negative ways. Positioning negotiate ongoing dialogue challenges sources growth considering motivations behind teacher students need. Reflection Schon one thousand nine hundred eightyseven arindividuals whose actions led challenges lead producgued fundamental part effective practitioner tive dialogue eschews division points towards novel ways field. Mulryan Kynes two thousand twentyone work highlighted important role reresponding struggle.  committed professional development flection plays teaching noted facilitates linkages engagement teachers permeates phase process theory practice encourages critical thinking p. five hundred two enables teachers collaborate identify address probcan support teachers abilities exercise professional judgment. lems practice Dunn  al. two thousand nineteen. Smagorinsky  al. two thousand fifteen argued reflective practice important feature navigating challenges novice teachers encounter. Yet far many novice teachers receive inadequate support related Methodology methods ability engage reflection navigate challenges encounter schools curricula driven idea This article reports findings examination Oral Inrecipe teachers follow ensure every child succeeds e. g. quiry Process OIP Fecho  al. two thousand twentyone Stewart  al. two thousand nineteen emFecho  al. two thousand twentyone Sutcher  al two thousand sixteen. Thus important develop ployed designed help novice teachers bring challenges approaches supporting novice teachers help respond encounter first years teaching productive dialogue challenges encounter developing abilities help learn respond moments struggle. The OIP connect teach diverse students classrooms process asks one participant lead session sharing also working within constraints created standardized policies narrative written prior session outlines specific challenge curricula schools. encountered year. The session leader begins session The challenges novice teachers must respond standardized YOU. S. sharing narrative wobble story group schools limited daily logistical aspects les group ask clarifying questions e. g. Did create asson planning assessment classroom management signment standardized assessment created teaching termed study act teaching one must get handle. team. The group writes responses following three quesNovice teachers also becoming members new school commu tions constructed support inquiry challenges nity culture Feiman Nemser two thousand three. Finding presented underlying tensions one What stood narfit within culture settling role teacher second yet rative two What connections make narrative three What . T. Stewart T. A. Jansky Teaching Teacher Education Leadership Professional Development one two thousand twentytwo one hundred thousand two Table one Coding dictionary. Code Criteria Statements indicate point moments index... Level one Codes The act teaching complex The challenges presented many aspects teaching planning instructional delivery managing classroom assessment The role teacher complex The challenges presented many aspects profession beyond day day instructional activities Level two Codes Relationships Lack preparation comfort navigating relationships adult stakeholders e. g. veteran teachers administrators parents Confidence Feelings inadequacy lack authority agency imperfection Expectations Standardized curriculum policies departmental norms grind personal professional beliefs effective teaching issues identify narrative The group discusses  used second Level One code role teacher sift data swers question round robin fashion session leader support examination nuances within roles teachers listens takes notes without talking. After group shares responses play interact fellow teachers administrators parents. question session leader shares ideas resonated  noted employ code data inthem. After three rounds session wraps open discus dexed interactions students. When clear participant sion. referring moment related relationship student Data generated OIP sessions seven novice teachers context teaching coded data points using first shared challenges encountered form wobble stories Level One code see related act teaching explored monthly OIP workshops Fecho  al. two thousand twentyone importance student teacher relationship functioned voluntary professional development program well covered ground teacher education. After initially sifting data novice teachers single public school upper midwestern region using codes related act role shifted attention United States. Three participants volunteered lead sources tension using second layer analysis Level second session brought total number workshops ten. Two codes see Table one. The school principal eager provide novel form professional The second layer analysis used index sources tension development novice teachers Tim invited run within wobble narratives kinds advice proffered duryear long professional development program pro bono teachers ing OIP workshops ascertain participants responded three fewer years experience school. Seven teachers challenges encountered. Sifting data via Level Two consented participate study program sessions led codes Relationships Confidence Expectations enabled us attend Tim. The participants taught math chorus history art special key sources tension nuances within creating education high school level grades nine hundred twelve. challenges participants contexts act teaching Tim conducted workshops online using OIP framework role teacher. Stewart  al. two thousand nineteen support participants abilities identify explore respond challenges encountered. Each session Results recorded transcribed. The session transcripts wobble stories initially analyzed authors using thematic analysis Our analysis OIP data indexed nuances within participants Maxwell two thousand five develop codes see Table one indexed common struggles related reconciling theory practice standardtrends challenges shared participants range ized schools managing relationships veteran teachers. Below responses shared OIP workshops. Trevor coded data unpack nuances within larger challenges encountered dependently prior meeting Tim sift data final participants act teaching role teacher articcoding tables. These meetings collaborative coding process sup ulate complexities within inform professional develported efforts apply coding dictionary see Table one fidelity. opment novice teachers.  present data related participants Level One codes developed sift data two overarching cate struggle reconcile beliefs teaching ought look like gories index complex nuances within two key aspects teachers reality teaching context highly standardized YOU. S. professional lives identified initial analysis act school significant source tension participants teaching role teacher. Level Two codes developed sift study represents common challenge novice teachers data indexed three key common sources tension identified United States e. g. Smagorinsky  al. two thousand thirteen. Feiman Nemser challenges responses challenges shared participants Buchmann one thousand nine hundred eightyfive dubbed struggle bring theory productive workshop sessions. dialogue practice two world pitfall points conThe Level One codes employed tease nuances related tradiction contention Smagorinsky  al. two thousand thirteen p. one hundred fortyeight. These day day aspects teaching teacher. The act teach contradictions flow standardized curricula instructional pracing code focused logistical elements job. Here examined tices e. g.  two thousand twelve Goldstein two thousand fourteen essentially sideline students easily recognizable aspects teaching often focus unique interest privilege rote learning higher order thinking methods teaching courses university teacher preparation creativity Stewart  al. two thousand twenty p. fortynine. programs lesson planning enacting instruction managing classroom.  used Level One code sift data pointed Unpacking theory practice challenge act teaching sources tension flowed learning master logistical aspects job. However teachers plan lessons Our analysis participants wobble stories discussion manage classroom enacting lessons assess students. OIP sessions indexed tensions within larger struggle They take larger roles school community. Thus created reconcile theory practice act teaching. The student centered second Level One code role teacher index sources tension theoretical approaches teaching Peter example brought better understand nuances challenges beyond mapped first year classroom getting left behind onto act teaching. required match fast pace schools standardized . T. Stewart T. A. Jansky Teaching Teacher Education Leadership Professional Development one two thousand twentytwo one hundred thousand two curriculum. Peter art teacher described approach speed. Jeff expressed frustration described expeteaching wanting guide students interacting observing riences essay assigned required many days world lens using experiences. Peter planned caused fall behind colleagues. Again Jeffs opened session led articulating struggle disconnect goals matching reality. Feeling pressure keep pace larger theory driven goals teaching developed members PLC exerting unhealthy tension upon prior taking classroom reality current Jeff something peers OIP session also experiteaching context felt compelled make really intricate encing. Hannah example also feeling pressure keep moving lessons essential questions every standard hit curriculum. She made connection Jeffs narrative mentie worksheets. tioning finite amount time get particular Peter told participants really hard time tran lessons slowing motivate students complete work sitioning actual classroom teacher education pro something thought could prioritize felt compelled gram taught focus getting kids think beyond material meet shared expectations created culture within school beyond basic concepts get life lessons instruction.   faculty. Monica also voiced similar struggle noted trying plied Level Two code confidence disconnect keep pace hard describing frustration theory practice two key competing centers gravity causing teachers telling class falling behind partichim lose confidence ability teach. Peter described ipants discussed struggles follow pacing curriculum whelming feeling shifting lifetime student different OIP session led Hannah. educator youth.. Peter shared concerns OIP Discussion across OIP sessions pointed complexity bridggroup really understanding begin ing gap pre service novice teacher contemporary schools fundamentals. Like I know things I know stu hyper focused standardized curricula pacing student dents base knowledge. His confidence waning Peter shared outcomes assessments. Peter Monica participants frustration receiving guidelines teacher study finding difficult reconcile ways pacing stantaught class past might proceed. The par dardization inhibiting beliefs effective ticipants study shared similar experiences discussion teacher. However participants shared concerns went beyond Peters session sessions responded issues raised theory practice gap brought focus collaborative dialogue lated pacing standardized curricula charged OIP sessions work highly standardized school enacting classrooms. strict pacing expectations. Standardization pacing nuances within theory practice challenge Assessment student readiness nuances within theory practice The schools curriculum mandates Peters grandiose ideas challenge teaching would contributed lack confidence abil Jeffs struggles related disconnect wanted ity fulfill required act teaching. Peter finding students able point another sigit difficult reckon wanted teacher nificant nuance within theory practice challenge assessment felt standardized prescriptive school policies requiring student readiness. As shared wobble story Jeff described. Thus also applied expectations Level Two code Peter tense one Monday giving students extra days comshared struggle craft lessons addressed many state stan plete essay seeing little progress majority dards included essential questions.  allowed perfect class made. Jeffwas confused uncertain world way I quickly realized pacing students complete assignment timeframe proof classroom much quicker hard. The curricular vided. Furthering confusion fact held hand expectations pacing requirements undermining efforts essay writing process going far provide develop deliver instruction allowed students make progress clean outline students fill blanks information towards learning goals set state standards. textbook.  recognized instructional approaches Responding Peters concerns Jeff expressed kinship felt employed failed engage students help reach learning Peter.  noted stood difference goals set. This situation caused Jeffto ask OIP group tween student teaching taught teaching get students take ownership learning less holding college way way way different actually teaching. Having hands throughout. strike without cooperating teacher makes act  applied Level One code act Jeffs wobble narteaching far complex one might think. Hannah echoed rative pointed challenges inherent day day logistics sentiment shared even imagine creating cur teaching. Jeffwas experiencing first hand complicated prericulum... You standards pare enact lessons students different stages even. Hannah commiserated confidence rocking readiness. This work complicated challenge engagscenario arises students judged based performance ing students bring different personal interests cultural standards tests said The student performance equating contexts classroom day. Jeffnoted skill teacher absolutely makes feel inadequate. students learning hoped completing assignments easily While Peter feeling alone terms getting concrete guidance however vast majority meeting learning goals would someone would taught classes alone set even turning assignments would help assess struggles two sources tension curricular expectations progress. The struggles Jeffpresented fellow participants confidence. OIP session pointed ways challenges exposing The participants expressed frustration pressure keep disconnect goals teaching actually acpace even pace actively undermining efforts complishing students. Like many wobble stories shared help students reach learning goals set curricula school. participants novice teachers Trevor worked During session led Jeff described PLC Professional Fecho  al. two thousand twentyone Stewart  al. two thousand nineteen Jeffs story highlights Learning Community met daily coordinate lessons.  noted first years teaching undermine ones belief ability hard fast rules pacing department. job. However explained still felt significant tension  The Level Two code confidence indexed nuances sources teneryone PLC tends move pace teach sion cause novice teachers question professional knowl5T. T. Stewart T. A. Jansky Teaching Teacher Education Leadership Professional Development one two thousand twentytwo one hundred thousand two edge ability fulfill duties act role teach teacher. Like participants McCann  al. s two thousand five study reing.  particular confidence code helped us focus Jeffs struggle search Trevor done novice teachers e. g. Stewart  al. know situations.  indexed moments two thousand nineteen Natalie peers experiencing difficulties participants experiencing similar tension made con managing relationships veteran teachers school nections Jeffs experience. Monica empathized Jeff mention could provide guidance. ing tiring constantly get nothing back students. Amy mentioned infuriating must provide opportunities The importance supportive colleagues complete work class receive completed essays. While may wish teachers feel strong negative emotions Jeff Monica Hannah others shared challenges related suptowards students would disingenuous act like porting students keeping pace curricular expectanever felt. Teachers put heart soul tions. Like anyone else seeking soften blows come job help feel deep emotions things go poorly. This living ones expectations new teachers may find confidence draining frustration occurs made worse comfort ascribing difficulties traits pupils parents Amy noted another session students faults usually blamed blaming administration Feiman Nemser two thousand three p. twentyseven. Dialogue mostly teacher. Teachers responsible carrying experienced colleague help someone turn away playout mandate students access quality education. ing blame game towards productive responses seek Thus easy understand anger arise students new approaches challenge. However finding colleague outside turn assignment teacher counting order evaluate structure professional development program one student progress provide feedback. The understandable frustration might dialogue easier said done. Across data set Jeff Amy Monica expressed session led Jeffis sur participants pointed ways challenges enprising since teachers working pressure filled environment countered exacerbated struggles associated working procontemporary schools appear privilege product assessment ductively fellow teachers particularly veteran teachers. process learning  two thousand eleven Goldstein two thousand fourteen Hill  al. two thousand twenty. Natalies session focusing frustration veteran teacher Here participants helped us see importance creating space assigned support indexed problematic professional development workshops novice teachers voice mentoring relationship appears far toxic profrustrations view stance see difficulty ductive. Here role teacher code called attention complicated site growth. interpersonal dynamics relationships among teachers within school. She Would told OIP group heard rumors Unpacking challenges role teacher job correctly. But assigned mentor checking working address areas might improve. NaOur analysis data also indexed ways day day de talie loss terms address troubled relationship mands teaching complicated participants transition role caused feel like walk eggshells teacher. Natalie special education teacher led OIP session high really reach without negative responses causing lighting complexities act teaching cause novice tension kind bite ass. As group discussed teachers struggle take new professional identity. As stood Natalies story Amy pointed teachers introduced wobble narrative Natalie said I learning like students.  know know. And I go lot paperwork I kind oblivious.... unhelpful people tell something She said felt like would turning bookkeeper felt right never really given instruction. like three jobs one. Natalie shared accommodates Amy raised important point significant implications profor classes paperwork like IEPs progress reports fessional development detailed supportive feedback essential case manager overseeing several students. The transition pre developing teacher supporting students development. service novice teacher put aspects job display Natalie Simply putting red X item students test help stuthat showed gaps filled. She said teacher dent learn. Feedback shows item incorrect models education program gave good taste career never something correctly fundamental element teaching assesslike full platter. Natalie struggling manage day day ment mentoring. Providing novice teachers detailed producdemands novice teacher student teaching expe tive support ought basic element professional development rience give opportunity responsible aspects practice. However element missing support job. However struggles exacerbated absence many participants study receiving. productive professional relationships veteran teachers As group continued discuss Natalies wobble moment Amy school.  wobble story Natalie stated mentor I currently shared thought toxic work environment must make coming currently mentoring. work every day really rough. She pointed hard focus During OIP discussion things stood group good teacher feel confident front students Natalies session Amy noted transition college envi people around hypercritical every move. ronment work environment really hard. Amy expanded Amy went offer concrete suggestion responding inthe difficulty transition pointed take terpersonal conflict Natalie mentor. She noted learned college work environment changes lot. likes approach conflict like asking questions like I know I  When add different opinions work experience mix new... I better next time This concrete suggesnot always. Amys contribution discussion serves tion respond uncomfortable situation fraught powerful reminder novice teachers much learn. Amy power dynamics precisely kind dialogue think proNatalie like Jeff Hannah Monica experiencing tensions fessional development ought make space nurture. However lated expectations confidence carrying act teaching. typical across data set discussion quickly turned away But tensions also tightly linked roles teachers productive dialogue respond struggle concrete must develop productive relationships veteran teachers. Across ways back towards venting commiserating. Michael data set unproductive relationships participants experi next person speak session sought assuage Natalies hurt enced teachers consistent source tension elements related feelings lamenting scrutiny pressure special education act teaching complicated participants efforts take role teachers also pointing feels like sup6T. T. Stewart T. A. Jansky Teaching Teacher Education Leadership Professional Development one two thousand twentytwo one hundred thousand two posed fix everything fix fix fix.  value Michaels attempt Discussion struggles OIP sessions particto validate Natalies feelings frustration discussions like ipants emotions display remained largely limited commiscan help novice teachers feel less alone. However also believe erating one another lamenting struggles arose stuprofessional development needs site lifting dents turn work bristling blame game results teachers spirits times struggle. Natalie novice teachers teachers feeling maligned parents administrators general position need concrete support like advice Amy offered public. The sessions Natalie participants going able navigate fraught relationships veteran shared struggles feeling isolated unsupported teachers schools. tasked mentoring also resulted discussion Natalies experience may seem extreme even look like outlier.  challenges made scant progress terms productively rethe first OIP session study Michael noted blown away spond.  see indication much work teamwork would experienced school. Peter also found sup done terms preparing novice teachers respond constraints portive veteran teachers school. They experiences teaching contexts navigating complex power relationwere much closer one would hope see support offered ships veteran mentor teachers. While OIP process creates novice teachers. But Natalie alone feeling unsupported. opportunities novice teachers notice begin respond Hannah led OIP session focused frustration challenges encounter see room improvement even within pacing policies related class teaching risk approach professional development grounded intenkid. Hannah noted feeling restricted monitored tional focus bringing frustrating topics dialogue exploration. last year. She frustrated colleagues said The OIP process currently constructed mechanism ought working pace even though place nudges group towards pause might push deeper different constraints different population. tensions unpack nuances within intentional Hannah described one meeting particular mentor teacher reflection positions frustrations sites growth. really funk feeling incompetent takehome message needed speed teaching. She tried Recommendations professional development speed things. She tried take advice. But students understanding material getting frustrated. Hannah noted Working analysis OIP data offer suggestions one instructional leaders supporting altering OIP might better nurture novice teachers abiliwalked classroom less four times plan ties learn challenges encounter limning made eye contact never came talk ited related working highly standardized school contexts. As group discussed connections would made Hannahs managing complexity relationships fellow teachexperience Natalie shared gets told wrong ers. The OIPs current flow discussing things stood connecwith students. She expressed frustration told tions made issues noted result deeper intentional expedagogical approach right needs way. ploration less obvious behind tensions emotions She noted corrected front students hinders stu someone might. Therefore suggest altering dents I sense.  effective professional development struc OIP includes additional step process See Apture needs include mechanism dialogue experienced pendix A aligns Schons one thousand nine hundred eightyseven notion reflection action peer things novice teacher like Natalie believes work relates thinking problem issue directly particular students. Michael pointed irony situation involved action Mulryan Kyne two thousand twentyone p five hundred three.  particular step saying I think PLC probably supposed... provides framework context collaborative reflexive activity often like... peer learning whatsoever. Its like Genor two thousand five found supported preservice teachers abilities making better teachers subject Curricular ex analyze experiences field. Thus argue altered pectations easily seen one important driving force leading OIP potential cultivate discussion explores nuances problematic mentoring system. However mentoring relational sources tension takes introspective turn towards proconstruct Gay one thousand nine hundred ninetyfive.  process individuals must make ductive emotion action. Reflection supported experienced meaning respond policies curriculum prescribed prac mentor critical factor developing ability learn adapt tices way dependent upon individual collaborative relation affordances constraints instructional context sense making. Both mentor mentee view things order greatest instructional impact Smagorinsky  al. personal lenses lived experiences complex two thousand fifteen. Reflecting upon challenges novice teachers encounter transactions occur two people seek understand. way would support efforts make teacher induction cycle inquiry Professional development novice teachers argue needs de explores responds nuances tensions signed ways honor complexity process becoming frustration undermine confidence. teacher. The additional steps suggest adding OIP would include reflective writing challenge raised session appropriate emotions challenge brought surface. The Implications recommendations second part step would include discussion participants reflections. The professional development facilitator would implement Discussion within OIP sessions pointed ways noticing step taking notes initial seven steps OIP embracing interrogating struggle help one learn chal generate reflective questions could push dialogue explore lenges encounter. The frustration anger Peter Jeff Amy nuances within challenge emotions raised. The facilitator Hannah Monica voiced related challenge reconciling would support reflection action Schon one thousand nine hundred eightyseven fulfilling role ory practice brought nuanced challenges teaching engag experienced mentor Smagorinsky  al. two thousand fifteen raise quesing students context highly standardized schools view tions consideration Where I I want struggles manage relationships veteran novice teachers go relation issue Are emotions causing discount anthat Natalie participants shared highlighted areas perspective The question posed would provide mechanism novice teachers need support.  section discuss ways focused reflection experiences novice teachers struggles might positioned sites growth professional devel call attention challenges encountering meeting opment programs. expectations set relation instructional practice . T. Stewart T. A. Jansky Teaching Teacher Education Leadership Professional Development one two thousand twentytwo one hundred thousand two confidence ability manage classroom going care teachers students communities learning dialogue disconnects see professional consider ways might use processes like altered OIP create judgments effective teaching looks like constraints mechanisms support cycle noticing embracing unpacking prevailing policies practices schools. A question posed reflecting upon experience novice teachers find novel productive related emotional interpersonal aspects taking role ways respond challenges encounter journeys beof teacher particular could support reflection action related coming teachers want. challenges associated building maintaining relationships teachers administrators. After teachers time Declaration Competing Interest flect write facilitator would open discussion inviting teachers share wrote.  believe additional OIP The authors declare known competing financial step would create opportunities teachers engage concrete interests personal relationships could appeared influence exploration things like students might engaged work reported paper. administrator veteran teacher parent might voice concerns instruction teacher providing. A goal discussion Supplementary materials created step would develop understanding concerns parties might instead allowing discussion Supplementary material ass ociated article found challenge raised teachers wobble story stall venting online version doi . 1016 j. tatelp. 2022. 100002. blame shifting affirming stages. The addition cycle reflection would create time space participants pause write reflect References picking discussion way pushes deeper issues hand.  W. two thousand eleven. Critical curriculum studies Education consciousness politics knowReflection however easy busy environment ing. New York Routledge. teachers work Mulryan Kyne two thousand twentyone p. five hundred two middle Barnes M. E. two thousand eighteen. Conflicting conceptions care teaching pre service teacher attrition. Teaching Education twentynine two one hundred seventyeight thousand one hundred ninetythree. discussion issues difficult threaten ones sense self Chu Y. two thousand nineteen. Mentor teacher professional identity development year long teacher competent professional. For example case like Natalies session residency. Mentoring Tutoring Partnership Learning twentyseven three two hundred fiftyone thousand two hundred seventyone. raised challenge relating mentor teacher produc  F. Wang Q. two thousand seventeen. New teachers perspectives informal mentoring Quality mentoring contributors. Mentoring Tutoring Partnership Learning twentyfive three tive ways cycle pausing reflect series guiding questions three hundred nine thousand three hundred twentyeight. discussion could mechanism would move Dunn A. H. Deroo M. VanDerHeide J. two thousand seventeen. With regret The genre teachers discussion level spurs growth insight explo public resignation letters. Linguistics Education thirtyeight three thousand three hundred fortythree. Dunn R. Hattie J. Bowles T. two thousand nineteen. Exploring experiences teachers undertakration one might emotions remain ing educational design research EDR form teacher professional learning. Pronegative. Pausing reflect struggle emotions brings fessional Development Education fortyfive one one hundred fiftyone thousand one hundred sixtyseven . 108019415257. 2018. 1500389. surface guidance provided professional development facili Fecho B. two thousand eleven. Teaching students Habits heart mind practice engaged classroom. New York  Teachers College Press. tator would lead participants away understandable venting Fecho B. Coombs D. Stewart T. T. Hawley T. two thousand twentyone. Novice teachers embracing occurs teacher feels unsupported towards discussion wobble standardized schools Using dialogue inquiry self reflection growth. possible responses feelings could help novice teachers New York  Routledge. develop courage ability ask constructive feedback Feiman Nemser S. two thousand three. What new teachers need learn. Educational Leadership sixty eight two thousand five hundred twentynine. teachers need manage issues occur Kidd  al. two thousand fifteen. Feiman Nemser S. Buchmann M. one thousand nine hundred eightyfive. Pitfalls experience teacher preparation. Teachers College Record eightyseven one five thousand three hundred sixtyfive. Conclusion Gay G. one thousand nine hundred ninetyfive. Modeling mentoring urban teacher preparation. Education Urban Society twentyeight one one hundred three thousand one hundred eighteen. Genor M. two thousand five. A social reconstructionist framework reflection The problematizThe challenges brought focus study nuances ing teaching. Issues Teacher Education fourteen two four thousand five hundred sixtytwo. within point importance implementing approaches Gerstl Pepin C. I. two thousand six. The paradox poverty narratives Educators struggling children left behind. Educational Policy twenty one hundred fortythree thousand one hundred sixtytwo. professional development help novice teachers instructional Gibbons L. K. Cobb P. two thousand seventeen. Focusing teacher learning opportunities idenleaders support work together embrace respond pro tify potentially productive coaching activities. Journal Teacher Education sixtyeight four ductively moments struggle. While recognize limitations four hundred eleven thousand four hundred twentyfive. Goldstein D. two thousand fourteen. The teacher wars A history Americas embattled profession. New presented study small sample size designed York  Doubleday. produce generalizable results data study help scholars Gordon E. J. two thousand seventeen. Exploring dyad The relationship establishment novice generate conceptual inferences Reissman two thousand eight p. one hundred thirtythree physical education teacher mentor. Mentoring Tutoring Partnership Learning twentyfive one two thousand seven hundred fortyone. form efforts create professional development structures support Hanushek E. A. Raymond M. E. two thousand five. Does school accountability lead improved novice teachers abilities learn challenges encounter student performance Journal Policy Analysis Management twentyfour two two hundred ninetyseven thousand three hundred twentyseven grow teachers.  view study changes rec . 103 pam. 20091. Hill J. Bass E. Stewart T. T. two thousand twenty. Promoting preservice teacher efficacy ommending OIP process incubator research dialogic problem posing seminars. English Education fiftyfour four three hundred fiftyeight thousand three hundred seventy. creation effective professional development structures.  Ingersoll R. M. two thousand twelve. Beginning teacher induction data tell us. Phi Delta Kapparticular motivated study altered OIP structure pan ninetythree eight 4751. . 1177 three quadrillion one hundred seventytwo trillion one hundred seventyone billion two hundred nine million three hundred thousand eight hundred eleven. larger sample size outside facilitators examine utility supIngersoll R. M. Strong M. two thousand twelve. What research tells us impact induction mentoring programs beginning teachers. Yearbook National porting reflection action think potential engender. Society Study Education one hundred eleven two four hundred sixtysix thousand four hundred ninety. The altered OIP suggest implementing one approach Izadinia M. two thousand sixteen. Student teachers mentor teachers perceptions expectations supporting novice teachers implementing professional development mentoring relationship  match clash. Professional Development Education fortytwo three 387402. . 1080 19415257. 2014. 994136. protocols examine challenges novice teachers face goal Kidd L. Brown N. Fitzallen M. two thousand fifteen. Beginning teachers perception inof closing gap want go. duction teaching profession. Australian Journal Teacher Education forty forty Just would argue single teaching practice work 153173. . 14221 ajte. 2014v40n3. . Leonardatos H. Zahedi K. two thousand fourteen. Accountability Racing Top New York contexts see OIP See Appendix A recipe State A report frontlines. Teachers College Record one hundred sixteen one hundred twentythree. guarantee success new teachers. Instead see one pro Luekens M. T. Lyter D. M. Fox E. E. two thousand five. Teacher attrition mobility Refessional development process could altered meet needs sults teacher follow survey 200001. Educational Statistics Quarterly six three four thousand fortyfour. particular context embedded within teacher induction Maxwell J. A. two thousand five. Qualitative research design  interactive approach 2nd .. Thouprograms designed support novice teachers.  encourage sand Oaks  Sage. . T. Stewart T. A. Jansky Teaching Teacher Education Leadership Professional Development one two thousand twentytwo one hundred thousand two McCann T. M. Johannessen L. R. Ricca B. P. two thousand five. Supporting beginning English Stewart T. T. Coombs D. Fecho B. Hawley T. two thousand nineteen. Embracing wobble Exploring teachers Research implications teacher induction. Urbana  NCTE Press. novice teachers efforts enact dialogic literacy instruction. Journal ofAdolescent Mitchell D. E. Kwok A. Hutson D. two thousand twenty. Induction program structures mediating Adult Literacy sixtythree nine two hundred eightynine thousand two hundred ninetyseven. factors coach influence novice teacher development. Professional Development Stewart T. T. Hill J. Lindstrom P. N. two thousand twenty. Exploring wobble collaboin Education fortysix five 812832. . 1080 19415257. 2019. 1643394. rativedialogue reconcile theory practice. Teacher Education Quarterly fortyseven one Mulryan Kyne C. two thousand twentyone. Supporting reflection reflective practice initial teacher four thousand eight hundred seventy. education programme  exploratory study. European Journal Teacher Education Sutcher L Darling Hammond L. Carver Thomas D two thousand sixteen. A coming crisis teach44 four five hundred two thousand five hundred nineteen. ing Teacher supply demand shortages YOU. S Palo Alto . Learning Policy Ravitch D. two thousand ten. The death life great American school system How testing Institute. choice undermining education. New York  Basic Books. Yenen E. T. Yontem M. K. two thousand twenty. Teachers professional development needs A Reissman C. K. two thousand eight. Narrative methods human sciences. Thousand Oaks  Sage. Q method analysis. Discourse Communication Sustainable Education eleven two Schon D. A. one thousand nine hundred eightyseven. Educating reflective practitioner. San Francisco  Jossey Bass. one hundred fiftynine thousand one hundred seventysix. Smagorinsky P. Gibson N. Bickmore S. T. Moore C. P Cook L. S. two thousand four. Praxis Stewart T. T. Jansky T. two thousand twentyone. Dialogical self theory Wobble Supporting novice shock Making transition student centered university program cor teachers dialogue.  Monereo C. Weise C. Hermans H. Eds.. Diaporate climate schools. English Education thirtysix three two hundred fourteen thousand two hundred fortyfive. logicality Personal local planetary dialogue education health citizenship Smagorinsky P. Rhym D. Moore C. P. two thousand thirteen. Competing centers gravity A begin research . fiftyfour sixtytwo. International Society Dialogical Science. ning English teachers socialization process within conflictual settings. English Education fortyfive two one hundred fortyseven thousand one hundred eightythree. . Trevor Thomas Stewart Associate Professor School Education Smagorinsky P. Shelton S. A. Moore C. two thousand fifteen. The role reflection developing Program Leader English Education Virginia Tech.  received . D. Language eupraxis learning teach English. Pedagogies  International Journal two hundred eightyfive thousand three hundred eight. Literacy Education Certificate Interdisciplinary Qualitative Studies Smith T. M. Ingersoll R. M. two thousand four. What effects induction mentoring University Georgia two thousand ten. His scholarship grounded work Russian literary beginning teacher turnover American Educational Research Journal fortyone three six hundred eightyone thousand seven hundred fourteen. theorist Mikhail Bakhtin research interests include influences educational Stansbury K. Zimmerman J. two thousand. Lifelines classroom Designing support policy high stakes testing English teachers instructional practices making creativbeginning teachers Knowledge brief. San Francisco  WestEd. ity central element learning process intersection language Stewart T. T. two thousand eighteen.  F. Meijers H. Hermans Eds..  The Dialogical self theory culture. education A multicultural perspective. Cultural psychology education five . three thousand five hundred fortyseven. Cham Switzerland Springer. . Timothy A. Jansky Assistant Professor English English Education Northern Stewart T. T. Boggs G. L. two thousand sixteen. Emerging dialogic structures education reform Michigan University.  received . D. Curriculum Instruction minor  analysis urban teachers online compositions. Dialogic Pedagogy  International English University Wisconsin Madison two thousand twentyone. His scholarship focuses Online Journal four one hundred fortytwo thousand one hundred sixtyone. supporting development early career teachers dialogue moments Stewart T. T. Boggs G. L. two thousand nineteen. Urban teachers online dissent produces cultural struggle. resources relevance teacher education. The Urban Review fiftyone two one hundred eightythree thousand two hundred. nine